Author: Faye
This transcript is derived from the YouTube transcript https://www.youtube.com/c/AndrewHubermanLab

欢迎来到HubermanLab播客
Welcome to the Huberman Lab Podcast
在这里 我们讨论科学和日常生活中基于科学的工具
where we discuss science and science based tools for everyday life.
我叫安德鲁·休伯曼
I'm Andrew Huberman,
是斯坦福医学院的神经生物学和眼科教授
and I'm a professor of neurobiology and opthomology at Stanford School of Medicine.
本播客与我在斯坦福大学的教学和研究角色无关
This podcast is separate from my teaching and research roles at Stanford.
然而 这是我的部分愿望
It is, however, part of my desire to
目的是让普通消费者接受零成本的科学信息和科学相关工具
bring zero cost to consumer information about science and science related tools to the general public.
在此 我要感谢今天播客的赞助商
Along those lines, I want to thank today's sponsors of the podcast.
第一个赞助商是AthleticGreens 运动绿色是我从2012年开始使用的产品
The first sponsor is Athletic Greens. Athletic Greens is a product that I've been using since 2012.
在我推出这个播客之前 我很高兴他们赞助了这个播客
Long before I launch this podcast, so I'm delighted that their sponsoring the podcast.
运动绿色蔬菜是一种维生素 矿物质 益生菌的补充物 这是绿色饮料
Athletic greens is an all and one vitamin, mineral, probiotic supplement. It's a greens drink.
和水混合 我喝了柠檬汁 因为我喜欢它的味道
That you mix with water. I had lemon juice to mine because I like the way it tastes.
它能提供你所需的所有维生素和矿物质
And it gets you all the vitamins and minerals you need,
以及益生菌益生菌对我来说很重要
as well as probiotics and probiotics are important to me.
因为现在有很多数据显示肠道健康对肠道大脑轴很重要
Because there are a lot of data now showing that gut health is important for
比如情绪免疫等
the gut brain axis, things like mood immunity, etc.
如果你想尝试运动绿地 你可以去运动绿地
If you want to try athletic greens, you can go to athletic greens
网址是 athletegreen.com/huberman 如果你这样做了
athletegreen.com/huberman, and if you do that,
他们会给你送来一年的液体维生素D 维生素3和维生素K
They'll send you a year supply of liquid vitamin D, three and K.
维生素D3 你们很多人可能已经知道
Vitamin D three, as many of you probably already know,
已经证明对免疫系统功能的各个方面都很重要
has been shown to be important for various aspects of immune system function.
以及其他生物途径 代谢功能等
As well as other biological pathways, metabolic function, etc.
如果你想尝试运动绿地 athletegreen.com/huberman
So once again, if you want to try athletic greens, you're an athletic greens, dot com slash Huberman.
他们会给你一年的D3 K2
And they will send you a year supply of the D, three, K, two.
本播客由Head space提供
This podcast is also brought to us by Head, space,
Headspace是一款冥想应用 让冥想变得简单
head Space is a meditation app that makes meditation easy.
我十几岁的时候就断断续续地冥想
I've been meditating on and off since I was in my teens.
关闭 比 开启 要多 主要是因为冥想很难坚持
With more off than on, mainly because meditation can be hard to stick to.
有些人很擅长冥想
Some people are very good at maintaining a meditation practice.
有的人 不太擅长 我属于后者
Others, not so much, I'm in the latter category.
然而 我发现当我有东西来指导我的冥想时
However, I find that when I have something to guide my meditation.
比如headspace 它让我更容易坚持我的冥想练习
Such as head space, it makes it much easier for me to be consistent about my meditation practice.
现在
There is now.
在高质量的同行评议期刊上有大量的数据 表明冥想状态可以促进
Tons of data out there in quality peer review journals, showing that meditative states can facilitate.
认知 心智功能恢复 体能恢复等
Cognition, recovery of mental function, recovery of physical ability, etc.
因此 有很多理由去从事冥想练习 headspace
So there are a lot of reasons to take up a meditation practice, head space,
headspace应用程序使学习和保持冥想练习很容易
and a head space app makes it easy to learn and maintain a meditation practice.
如果你想尝试headspace 你可以去headspace.com/specialoffer
If you want to try head space, you can go to head space, dot com slash special offer.
如果你这样做
And if you do that.
他们会让你免费试用一个月的headspace冥想应用
They will let you try head space for an entire month for free,
所以是零风险的 这就是headspace冥想应用的特别优惠
so zero risk, there, that's head space, dot com slash special offer to try Head Space, the meditation app.
免费试用一个月
For one month for free.
今天的播客是关于睡眠和觉醒的
Today's podcast episode is about sleep and wakefulness.
我们要讨论一下倒时差 轮班工作
We are going to discuss jet lag shift work.
还有婴儿 小孩  老人的相关问题
Babies, kids and the elderly,
我们将讨论有科学依据的方法
and we are going to discuss protocols that are backed by science.
这意味着它们都被发表在优秀期刊上 有高质量 同行评议的论文
That means quality, peer reviewed papers published in excellent journals.
这些论文显示有一些特定的工具 你可以用它来对付时差
That can support particular tools that you can use to combat things like jet lag.
抵消轮班工作的一些负面影响
Offset some of the negative effects of shift Work.
让新父母的生活更轻松 同时也让新生儿
And make life easier for the new paren't as well as for the newborn child,
让青少年 任何想睡得更好的人都更轻松
the adolescent, anyone that wants to sleep better.
让他们醒着的时候感觉更好 等等
Feel better when they're awake. Etc.
如果你已经听了之前三集的HumanonLab播客
If you've listened to the previous three episodes of the Humanon Lab podcast,
那你就知道我们一直在探索清醒和睡眠的主题
We've been exploring these themes of wakefulness and sleepiness,
如何入睡 如何保持睡眠
how to fall asleep, how to stay asleep.
我们已经讨论了光线 运动 温度等参数
And we've been discussing parameters like light, exercise, temperature, etc.
如果你有机会听这些章节 那很棒
If you've had a chance to listen to those episodes, great, today's discussion will.
今天的讨论将会更容易理解  如果你没有听之前几期 也没关系
Be even more digestible for you if you haven't. That's OK.
我会在这里或那里提供一些背景知识
I will provide a little bit of background here or there,
这样你们就不需要听之前的内容了
so that it's not necessary that you have listened to those previous episodes,
但是如果你们有机会听的话
But if you get a chance to listen to them.
还是听一下吧 我想这会帮助你更好地消化信息
Please do it, I think it will help you digest the information better.
我们先退一步说
Let's just take a step back for a moment.
提醒一下大家我们在讨论什么
And remind everybody what we're talking about,
我们说的是我们内在的意义 节奏
we're talking about an indogenous meaning within us, rhythm.
我们称之为昼夜节律
That we call the circadian rhythm.
昼夜节律是身体所有功能的24小时节律
The circadian rhythm is a twenty four hour rhythm in all sorts of functions.
最突出的是我们清醒和困倦时的这种节奏
The most prominent one is a rhythm in our feelings of wakefulness and sleepiness.
不管你信不信 这个实验在历史上一直都有人在做
So believe or not, the experiment has been done throughout history,
虽然不常做 但人们会时不时地到一个山洞里去
not often, but it's been done where people will go down into a cave.
并在持续的黑暗中存在一段时间
And will exist in constant darkness for some period of time.
也有一些情况是人们在恒定的光线下生活了一段时间
There are also cases where people have been in constant light for some period of time.
但因为人们可以闭上眼睛
But because people can close their eyes, it's actually easier to
所以在持续的黑暗中做实验更容易解决这个
do the experiment where you're in constant darkness to address the question of, what is the indogenous meaning.
我们所有人的内在节奏的问题
The internal rhythm that we all have,
结果是我们都有这种大约24小时的节奏
and it turns out we all have this rhythm of about twenty four hours,
虽然不一定是准确的24小时
although it's not exactly twenty four hours, meaning.
但也意味着每24小时
Every twenty four hours.
你的体温会从低到高再降到低
Your body temperature goes from low to high and back down to low again,
这个过程需要24小时 不是18小时 不是6小时 而是24小时
and it takes twenty four hours for that to repeat, not eighteen, not six, twenty four.
偏差大概几个小时
Plus or minus a couple hours.
你也有睡眠和清醒的节奏
You also have a rhythm in.
会伴随着体温的变化
Sleepiness and wakefulness that correlates with that,
因为我们的体温下降得越来越低  我们往往会感到困倦
we tend to be sleepy as our temperature is falling getting lower,
当体温升高时   我们往往会更加清醒
and we tend to be more awake. We're waking when our temperature is increasing.
这就是生物学上的事实
This is a biological fact, it is.
这就写在了我们的DNA里 实际上我们每个人身上都有基因
Write down to our DNA, we actually have genes in every single one of ourselves
确保每个细胞都有24小时的节奏 大约是24小时
that ensure that every cell is on this twenty four hour ISH rhythm, close to twenty four hours.
我们的上颚上方有一个时钟 这是一组被称为视交叉上的神经元
We have a clock over the roof of our mouth, a group of neurons called the suprachiasmatic nucleus.
这个时钟产生一个24小时的节奏 这个时钟是经过调整的
That clock generates a twenty four hour rhythm, and that clock is in trained,
这意味着它会
meaning it is matched.
匹配外部的光暗周期 这并不奇怪
To the external light, dark cycle, which is no surprise.
在地球上待24小时需要24小时
Twenty four hours spending the earth takes twenty four hours, so.
所以我们的细胞 我们的器官 我们的觉醒 我们的温度
Our cells, our organs, our wakefulness, our temperature,
还有我们的新陈代谢 我们的免疫系统
but also our metabolism, our immune system.
我们的情绪 所有的一切都被束缚在外部 光与暗的循环
Our mood, all of that is tethered to the outside, light, dark cycle,
如果我们以完美的方式生活 每天早上醒来
And if we are living our life in a perfect way, where we wake up in the morning.
看到阳光穿过地平线 到了晚上 几乎捕捉不到阳光
And we view sunlight as it crosses the horizon, and then by evening, we catch a little sunlight.
到了晚上 我们处于完全的黑暗中
And then at night, we're in complete darkness,
我们会或多或少地完全适应外部或环境的光与暗循环
we will be more or less perfectly matched to the external or ambient light, dark cycle.
很少有人会这么做 因为别忘了还有一个东西  叫人造光
Very few of us do that because of these things that we call artificial lights,
这是我们的生活需求
and this other thing that we call life demands.
所以今天我们要讨论的是 当我们脱离这种节奏时
So today we're going to talk about, when we get pulled away from that rhythm,
现在你可能马上就在想
Now you may immediately be thinking.
我听说世界上有夜猫子和百灵鸟
Well, I've heard there are night owls and there are mourning larks,
它们有时也被称为 它们是基因多态性
they're sometimes called, and they're genetic polymorphisms.
这只是个花哨的名字
That's just a fancy name for.
基因变异使一些人想早起
Genetic variations that make some people want to wake up early,
另一些人想熬夜 青少年想睡懒觉 这些都是真的
and other people want to stay up late, and teens want to sleep in, more sure, that's all true.
这都是真的 不管我们给它们取什么名字
That's all true, regardless of what names we give those however,
但是  不可逃避的事实是 人类是一种白天活动的物种
There's no escaping the fact that human beings are a diurnal species.
就是这样的
We were designed literally.
我们的细胞和我们身体的回路被构造成这样
Our cells and the circuits of our body were constructed to be.
白天醒着 晚上睡觉
Awake during the daytime and asleep at night.
我怎么知道的呢 我并没有参与这个理论的设计阶段
How do I know that? Well, I wasn't consulted at the design phase.
但我很确定 因为很多研究表明当我们
But I'm certain of that, because many studies have shown that when we deviate too far from.
偏离白天的时间安排 试着变成夜间活动的时候
A diurnal schedule, and we try and become nocturnal,
我们可以做到 但会严重的健康影响
we can pull it off, but serious health effects,
无论是精神上 还是身体上 都会开始出现问题
both mental and physical, start to arise.
今天我不会花太多时间谈论时差的负面影响
I'm not going to spend much of today talking about all the negative effects of jet lag.
我会稍微讲一下
I'll talk a little bit about it.
也不会多讲轮班工作的负面影响
Or the negative effects of shift work
也不会告诉你一些非常惊人的数据来吓唬你
or trying to scare you by telling you about the quite valid data around.
什么抑郁 健忘症 痴呆啊
Depression, amnesia.
所有那些当你睡不好的时候发生的可怕的事情 我都不讲
Dementia, all the terrible things that happen when you're not sleeping well,
我更想集中在你能做什么 以及用什么工具调节
rather, I'd like to focus on what you can do, and army with tools.
我们先来讨论一下这个完美的时间表 然后再来讨论一下时差
So let's talk about that perfect schedule for a moment, and then let's talk about jet lag and what.
以及时差反应真正代表着什么 以及如何克服时差反应
Jet lag really represents and how to push back on jet lag,
加快生物钟 避免一些严重的问题
shift your clock faster and escape some of the severe.
时差会导致的那些不好的事情
Bad things that can happen with jet lag,
包括在工作或度假旅行时感到痛苦
including just feeling miserable when you're traveling for work or vacation.
那么什么才是完美的白天时间安排呢
So what is the perfect day,
从昼夜节律睡眠和觉醒的角度来看 这是什么概念呢
what What does that look like From a circadian sleep, wakefulness standpoint.
我要总结一下我在前三集播客里说过的话
I'm about to summarize what I've said in the three previous podcast episodes,
以及我在Instagram上发过的很多帖子也都讲了这个事情
as well as now countless Instagram posts.
事情是这样的 你基本上需要得到尽可能多的光线 最好是阳光
Here's the deal, you basically want to get as much light, ideally, sunlight.
但是 在这每24小时的周期内 每当你想要清醒、变得警觉的时候
But as much light into your eyes during the period of each twenty four hour cycle
你要让光进入你的眼睛
when you want to be awake. When you want to be alert
而当你想要睡觉或者昏昏欲睡的时候
and you want to get as little light into your eyes.
你要让尽可能少的光线进入你的眼睛
At the times of that twenty four hour cycle, when you want to be asleep or drowsy and falling asleep.
那具体是多少光线呢 嗯...
How much is enough? Well,
你不希望太多的光线照射  那会伤害你的眼睛
You don't want to go so high with the light exposure that you damage your eyes,
因为你们很多人都是
because as many of you are.
眼睛的前面实际上是大脑的两部分
Say before the eyes are actually two pieces of your brain,
你的中枢神经系统从头骨中伸出来
your central nervous system that were extruded out of your skull.
作为中枢神经系统的一部分 也就是你的大脑
And as pieces of the central nervous system, aka a your brain.
它们不会再生 至少现在是这样
They will not regenerate, least right now,
在人类身上没有再生这些神经元的技术
the technologies don't exist to regenerate those neurons in humans,
你不会想要破坏它们的
you do not want to damage them.
那么什么时候过亮了呢 嗯 当你看光线看起来很痛苦的时候
So what is too bright? Well, when it's painful to look at.
当你必须眨眼或闭上眼睛才能承受的时候
When you have to blink or close your eyes in order to bear it.
所以感觉到疼痛的时候就请不要看太亮的灯了
So please don't look at very bright lights so painful that there.
这可能会伤害你的眼睛 然而
Likely going to damage your eyes. However,
如果你早上起床的时候
If you get up in the morning.
外面还很黑 你想保持清醒 你最好还是打开人造光
And it's still dark out and you want to be awake. You would be wise to turn on.
特别是头顶灯 原因我之前已经讨论过
Artificial lights, in particular overhead lights, for reasons I've discussed previously,
那些头顶灯将会很好地触发神经元 这些视网膜上的黑视蛋白细胞
but those overhead lights will optimally trigger the neurons, these melanops and cells in the retina.
会激活你的生物钟
That will activate your circadian clock.
当太阳出来的时候 即便有云遮住
When the sun comes out, even if there's cloud cover,
首先你要知道无论你住在哪里 太阳每天都会出来
The sun does come out every day, regardless of where you live.
除非你住在山洞里 曾经有人跟我说
Unless you live in a cave, people have said to me,
我住在一个看不到太阳的地方
well, I live in an area where I can't really see the sun,
太阳就在那里
well the sun is there.
太阳可能是躲在云层后面 除非你住的地方非常非常黑
It might be hot hiding behind clouds, unless it's very, very dark, where you live,
比如斯堪的纳维亚 或者是严冬
like Scandinavia and the depths of winter.
在这种情况下 你可能需要一些人造光 尽可能让阳光照进你的眼睛
Which case you might want some artificial light, get some sunlight in your eyes when you can.
这些是我之前没有讨论过的 关于阳光和人造光的处理
Here's the deal with sunlight and artificial light that I have not discussed previously.
大量的光子能量 大量的勒克斯 L-U-X 到你眼睛里
A lot of photon energy, a high amount of lux, L-U-X comes through,
即便被云层覆盖
even cloud cover,
一个比较好的数字
a good number to shoot for.
从经验来看   试着接触至少10万勒克斯的阳光吧
As a rule of thumb, is to try and get exposure to at least 100000 lux.
在9点之前
Before nine am.
再晚一点早上十点 但尽量在九点之前
Ten a, M, maybe, but before nine am,
假设你是在早上五点到八点之间醒来
assuming you're waking up sometime between five and eight am.
好 要吸收10万勒克斯  但是不要 我再说一遍
OK, so get 100000 lux Now you do not, I want to repeat,
尽量不要盯着20万勒克斯或者100万勒克斯
you do not want to stare at a two hundred thousand LUX or a one hundred.
因为那样就非常非常亮了
Thousand lux light. It's very, very bright.
生物钟设定的机制 这一点非常重要
The mechanism of circadian clock setting. And this is very important.
生物时钟设置的机制涉及到你眼睛里的这些神经元
The mechanism of circating clock setting involves these neurons in your eye.
将电子信号发送到你上颚上方的生物钟
That send electrical signals to this clock above the roof of your mouth,
这个系统累积 意思是它不断加上光子 这是一个很慢的系统
and that system sums, meaning it adds photons. It's a very slow system.
假设我醒来 我看了一下电脑屏幕 或者手机屏幕
So let's say that I wake up and I look at my computer screen briefly, or my phone screen.
这可能是500到1000勒克斯 如果我看它一分钟
That's probably 500 to a thousand lux, if I were to look at that for a full minute,
我会把光子能量转换成神经元的电能
I would get that photon energy transferred into electrical energy of neurons,
然后传到我的生物钟上
and it would be communicated to my circadian clock.
然而 这个在早晨的光信号
However, the signal that its morning will.
它不会调节生物钟 除非我盯着手机 电脑
Not have registered with the circadian clock. Unless I looked at that for.
看个一百多分钟 那可能还能达到10万勒克斯
A hundred minutes or more, so 100000.
现在的问题是 如果你8点醒来
Now the problem is, if you wake up at eight o'clock.
在你到达所谓的昼夜节律停滞区之前
You're not going to get enough light from artificial light
你将无法从人造光源中获得足够的光线
before you reach what's called the circadian dead zones.
你会有一个机会
You have this opportunity.
在9点之前 也可能10点之前 来捕捉足够的光子
Before 9 am, maybe ten a M to capture enough photons,
但你必须用你的眼睛来做
and you have to do it with your eyes.
我已经在之前的播客中讨论过为什么这很重要
I've discussed why that's important. In previous episodes of the podcast,
你必须用你的眼睛来做 因为除了眼睛意外  没有光受体了
you have to do it with your eyes, there is no extraocular photo reception.
这跟维生素D 皮肤没有关系
This is not about vitamin D and your skin.
这是生物钟  设置它  对你的身心健康至关重要
This is about setting a circadian clock which is paramount for mental and physical health.
所以这里我们讨论的是尝试得到 至少10万个光子
So here we're talking about trying to get that, at least 100000 photons,
不一定要一次性得到 但你必须在9点或10点之前 吸收那么多
but not all at once, but you got to get them before am, ish, maybe ten am.
那么怎么做呢 走出去
So what do you do You go outside.
如果你已经对这一量化研究感到厌烦 你可以下载一个免费的应用程序 比如Lightmeter
If you want to get nerdy about this quantitative, you could download a free app like Light meter and.
用测光表环顾一下你的房子
Take a look around your house with light meter,
你会注意到即使是头顶上最明亮的灯也只能发出
and you'll notice that even bright overhead lights are only emitting about.
4000或5000勒克斯 那么你就需要花很长时间睁开眼睛看着那些光
4000 or 5000 lux, it's going to take a long while of looking at those lights with eyes open
才能设置好你的循环时钟 告诉你的大脑和身体现在是早上
in order to set your circating clock and tell your brain and body that's morning.
即使在阴天也要出门
Going outside even on a cloudy day.
阴天也有7000-10000勒克斯 它的亮度非常惊人
Could be 7000-10000 lux. It's really remarkable how bright it is,
这意味着有多少能量通过 所以试试看吧 得到10万勒克斯
meaning how much foot on energy is coming through, so try and get 100000 lux.
在9点之前 如果你做不到
Before 9am. Now if you can't do that,
可能因为你生活在一个光线不够明亮的地方
because you live in an area of the world where it's just not bright enough.
有些人从英格兰北部给我发了照片
Some people have sent me pictures from Northern England.
确实在冬天 光线不够明亮 那么你可以使用人造光源
As just not bright enough in winter, then sure, you can resort to using artificial lights.
为了得到足够的光子
In order to get enough photons,
我把这个10万勒克斯作为目标  在每天早上九点之前要得到
and I'm putting out this hundred thousand lux number as a target to get each day before nine am.
理论上 你可以从人造光中得到这些
You can, in theory get it all from artificial lights,
但阳光有一些特殊的特性使它成为更好的刺激
but there are some special qualities about sunlight that make sunlight the better stimulus.
首先
First of all,
阳光是免费的  你一走出门就能得到
It's free, if it's available outside.
有很多不同的
There is A-A number of different, there are,
不好意思 有很多不同的技术
excuse me, a number of different technologies,
就像这个 就像这个光照板
kind of like this one, like a light pad.
比如说这边 它显示是930勒克斯 我不是在打广告
That this one says it's 930, lux, I'm not.
我把商标遮住是因为 我并没有在推销这款产品  这是我自己买的
I'm covering this up because I'm not trying to promote any specific products actually bought this.
我用自己的钱在亚马逊上买的 他们不是赞助商
Just with my own money on Amazon, they're not a sponsor,
它可以切换亮度 只要拿着这个
and it lets you toggle the brightness, I think, by holding this on.
按下这个按钮 你可以让光线变暗变亮 现在大概是一千勒克斯
Holding down this button, you can make a dimmer brighter, there's about a thousand lux,
看起来很亮 但在外面的时候  即便是阴天
it seems really bright, but a cloudy day outside will have
外面也会有比这高五倍的光子能量
five times more photon energy coming through.
所以有些人会把这些灯 或自拍用的环形灯
So some people set these lights or ring lights that they use for selfies,
放在他们的办公室 咖啡室或工作间等地方
and that kind of thing near their ther, coffee or work station first thing in the morning,
但其实还是阳光更好
but you really want to get sunlight.
好吧 这些东西很好 因为你可以带着它们
OK, so those things are kind of nice because they'll travel,
之后我们会谈到飞行时差
and we're going to talk about jetlag.
但我再怎么强调也不为过
But I can't emphasize this enough that light has to be captured and sum
在你进入昼夜节律死区 也就是一天的中午之前 你必须捕捉并累积到光线
before you can enter the Circadian dead zone, which is the middle of the day.
这也是为了达到完美的生物钟时间安排
This is again trying to achieve kind of perfect schedule.
根据科学文献 我之前建议了
Then I've recommended, based on scientific literature, that.
看阳光吧  有时候在太阳落山的时候去看一下阳光
You look at sunlight some time around the time when the sun is setting,
原因是因为
and the reason for that, of course, is because it just.
这会降低你眼睛的敏感度  而这就是一个残忍的事实
Down the sensitivity of your eyes, because here's the diabolical thing.
虽然我们在清晨需要大量的光子能量来唤醒我们的系统
While we need a lot of photon energy early in the day to wake up our system
设置我们的生物时钟 但14到16个小时之后  我们要为睡一夜好觉做准备
and set our circading clock and prepare us for a good night sleep. Fourteen to sixteen hours later,
而晚上8点之后 重置和改变我们的生物钟只需要很少的光子能量
It takes very little photon energy to reset and shift our clock.
这就是为什么你要这样做 尽可能避免强光 甚至
After eight pm, and that's why you want to, as much as you safely can avoid bright light. And even.
晚上10点或11点到早上4点之间  光线都不能太亮
Not so bright light between the hours of ten or eleven PM and four am.
很多人问过我一些关于这个的问题
Number of people have asked me some questions about this,
上一集我讲红光时 我会讨论防蓝光眼镜 诸如此类的东西
and the last episode I went into red lights, I would discuss blue blockers, all that kind of stuff.
所以在这边我就不重复了
So I'm not going to repeat all that.
但是
But.
事情是这样的 如果你在下午看到光线
Here's the thing, if you see afternoon light,
你要调整你眼睛的敏感度
you are going to adjust down the sensitivity of your eyes
这样你就有更多的回旋空间
so that you have a little bit more wiggle room.
给你更多的余地  在晚上去看屏幕上的灯光和头顶的灯
Little bit more leeway to view lights from screens and overhead lights,
这样就不会打乱你的生物钟
even late at night without disrupting your circadian clock.
但光是一把双刃剑 因为你在一天的早些时候需要大量的光线
But it is a kind of a double edged sword where you need a lot of light early in the day.
而且你需要避免晚上的强光
And you need to avoid bright lights later in the day.
我提到过这里的研究 很多人都问过具体文献链接在哪
I've mentioned studies on here, a number of you have asked about getting the references.
我们正在努力放上网页的完整的链接
We are in the process of trying to get a webpage going with full links.
现在还得处理一些版权问题
There are some copyright issues that we have to deal with.
但只要有可能 我就会尝试放上引用这些研究  大家问的时候
But wherever possible, I'll try and reference these studies, and when people ask out,
我通常会把它们放在Youtube或Instagram的评论回复中
generally put them in the response to their comments on Youtube or in Instagram.
科罗拉多大学做了两项研究
There have been two studies done from University of Colorado,
都发表在 《当代生物学》 上  大家可以去看
both published in Current biology. You can use.
我们也是在网上找到这些  大家可以搜索  “当代生物学” “露营”
We find these online by just, you know, googling the words current biology, camping and.
“重置生物钟”这样的关键字
Reset circating clocks
研究中显示  两天在阳光中醒来
that have shown that two days of waking up with the sun.
以及在晚上避光 他们让研究生露营
And avoiding light at night, they actually took graduate students camping,
这是个很酷的实验 让他们重置褪黑激素和皮质醇的节奏
the cool experiment, to be a part of reset the melatonin and cortisol rhythms for these.
那些原本远离自然节奏的人们
People that had otherwise drifted quite far from their natural rhythms.
你还可以做其他事情来改变你的生物钟 强化你的生物钟
There are other things that you can do to shift your clock and to reinforce your clock,
比如在同一时间多锻炼或少锻炼 在同一时间多吃东西或少吃 等等
like exercising more or less the same time, eating more or less the same time, Etc.
这不是今天这集的主题 所以我只描述完美的生物钟
That's not what today's episode is about, so I just describe perfect schedule,
至少要看10万勒克斯的光线 但不是一下子吸收完 而是早上累积过来
get at least 100000 lux of light exposure to the eyes, not all at once, but summing Across the morning
你的眼睛感觉到痛苦 不舒服的时候 那就是光线太多太强了 不要再看了
you know when it's too much because it's painful to look at. So.
要避免这种情况
That's obviously something to avoid,
但是一旦到了中午 比方说你在10点或11点醒来
but then once the middle of the day, let's say you're waking up at ten or eleven,
你走到外面 太阳已经在头顶了 那算了吧
you go outside the sun's overhead, forget it,
这不会再改变你的生物钟了 就是改变不了
you're not going to shift your clock. You're just not.
不是这样调整的
It doesn't work that way.
在晚上 你看到了傍晚的光
In the evening, you see the evening light and.
你想让光线降低你的视网膜敏感度 给你一点缓冲
You want to get that light to adjust down your retinal sensitivity, to afford you a bit of a buffer.
这样在深夜 如果你碰巧在半夜看屏幕或上厕所
So that late at night, if you happen to look at screens or go to the bathroom
那也不会改变你的生物钟
in the middle of the night, it's not going to shift your clock.
因为在半夜的时候  只需要大约
Because it takes probably only about.
一千到一千五勒克斯的光能量 就能改变你的时钟
Thousand to 1500 lux of light energy to shift your clock in the middle of the night.
让我们来谈谈调整生物钟
So let's talk about shifting clocks,
因为对于有时差反应的人来说
because for the jet lag person.
这种根据光照 体温 运动 饮食改变生物钟的能力
This ability to shift the clock with light temperature,
对于适应当地新的作息时间至关重要
exercise in food is vitally important for getting onto the new local schedule.
还有很多关于时差的东西
And there's so much out there about jet lag.
今天我要把它缩小到一个非常具体的参数
Today I'm going to dial it down to one very specific parameter that
你们不用任何技术或设备都能弄清楚
all of you can figure out Without any technology or Devices.
并且可以当你出差的时候运用
And can apply for when. When you travel for work.
或者愉悦 或者任何发生时差反应的时候 我要强调的是
Or pleasure, or anytime your jet lag. And I want to absolutely emphasize.
不是在旅行的时候才会有时差 你们很多人都有时差
That you don't have to travel to get jet laged. Many of you are jet laged.
你的时差可能是因为你在半夜看手机
Your jet lag because you're looking your phone in the middle of the night,
你的时差是因为你在一天的不同时间醒来 你的时差是因为
your jet lag because you're waking up at different times a day. Your jet lag because.
你的锻炼在最近这段时间很混乱 有时在这个时间点 有时候在那个时间点
Your exercise is on a chaotic regime some days at this time, some days at that time,
如果你能适应这种锻炼的安排 那太好了没问题
and if that works for you, great.
我想先说清楚的是 很多人总是说
I want to be really clear that a number of people always say, well, I know so. And so that.
你只需要睡四个小时就行了
You only need four hours of sleep, and or they're just fine.
或者他们跨越时区去欧洲旅行一切也都很好
They travel to Europe and they're just fine.
个体有很多差异
There's a lot of individual variability,
我们将讨论这些差异的起源
and we're going to talk about the origins of some of that variability.
我的意思是 你看 还有些人想吃什么吃什么
I mean, I know people that can eat anything
但同时也能保持着良好的血脂水平
and somehow seem to maintain great lipid profiles, and um, you know, uh,
良好的体重  以及良好的健身能力
Body weight and and fitness ability, and I know some people that
而有些人吃一块饼干就会因为怕胖而哭成一个泪人
they eat one cracker and they sort of dissolve into a puddle of kind of tears.
对 因为他们认为那样会让他们撒开了吃变胖
Right Because they think that that's going to throw them off,
也许确实如此 我不知道 你知道的 世界上的个体差异太多了 所以
and maybe it does. I don't know, you know, there's a tremendous amount of variability out there, so.
我们讲的是 什么是最佳的 有可能的选择 你必须不断寻找
This is really about optimal, and what's possible, and you have to ask,
我只能说 从我的个人经验来看 我饱受时差的折磨
I can just say from personal experience, I suffer terribly from jet lag.
只有当往一个方向飞的时候会这样  其他不会
Traveling in certain directions, but not others.
有些人没有时差的烦恼 但很多人  当他们去一个新的地方旅行的时候
Some people don't have trouble with jet, like many people will travel to a new location.
第一天和晚上的感觉都很好
They feel great for the first day and night.
然后接着他们就会崩溃 睡眠开始有问题
And then they crash and they have trouble sleeping
或者他们会回去之后 也很难回到正常的作息时间
or they travel back, and they have a terrible time getting back onto a normal schedule.
有些会因年龄而异 有些会因基因而异
And some of this varies with age, and some of it varies with genetics and.
没有简单的一片药或任何东西可以让你消除时差反应
There is no simple pill or anything that you can take to just get rid of, jet lag,
没有这种方法 如果真的有
it doesn't work that way, if it worked that way.
我会告诉你们的 但是你可以做一些简单的事情
I would tell you, but there are some simple things that you can do.
我会先告诉你时差反应是什么以及它是如何产生的
An army with the knowledge of what jet lag is and how it works.
可能与很多人现在所相信的概念相反
And contrary to what many people out there say and believe,
我知道 理解这个机制会给你更多的灵活性
I know, that understanding mechanism affords you more flexibility.
为什么理解机制相比较于我写个PDF文件
Why understand mechanism is just opposed to me just writing up a PDF
然后再给你一堆要做的事情 不一样呢
and giving you a list of things to do well?
当你理解了其中的机制后 你不会完全按照别人所写的方法去做
What happens when you can't do those things in exactly the way they're written down when you understand mechanism.
因为你知道如何控制你的生物系统 你的神经系统
You understand how to control the machine that is your biological system, your nervous system.
所以对机制有一点了解是很有帮助的
So a little bit of understanding about mechanism goes a really long way.
这就是我们要讲的 我们来谈谈什么是时差
So that's where we're headed. Let's talk about what jet lag is.
好吧 我之前确实保证过我不会讲关于时差反应的那些很坏的影响
OK, well, I promised that I wouldn't get too dark with all the terrible things that can happen with jet lag,
但我这里要讲它的坏影响
but I'm about to get dark.
有高质量的同行评议论文表明 时差会缩短你的寿命
There are quality peer reviewed papers showing that jet lag will shorten your life.
你会死得更早
It will kill you earlier.
我觉得这意味着你会死得更早
I guess it means you'll die earlier.
但它不一定是致命的
It doesn't actually kill you, necessarily, although.
但是发生过很多次  游客在公交前身亡
There are many cases where tourists end up stepping in front of buses,
特别是在一些国家
especially in countries where
汽车和公交车开在他们习惯的路道的对面
the cars and buses drive on the opposite side of the street that they are used to.
对于那些因时差而丧命的人来说 时差是一件很严重的事情
Who are jet laged and lose their life that way, jet lag is a serious thing.
在我成长的过程中 听到了我们家有一位亲人的故事
She, we had a family story about this when I was growing up.
她出国工作旅行
At a family member travel overseas for work.
到那之后吃了一片安眠药 我不会说出安眠药的名字
And take a sleeping pill. I won't name the sleeping pill,
不过最后我会讲一下安眠药的事
though, at the end, I'm going to talk about sleeping pills
结果她完全失忆了一个星期
and had a case of total amnesia. For a week.
这种情况并不少见 如果你真的经历过时差 睡着了
That's not entirely uncommon, if you've ever been really jet laged and fallen asleep,
在大白天醒来 你可能不知道自己身在何处
doesn't even have to be in the middle of the day, woken up. You might not know where you are.
这是因为时间和空间在大脑中是紧密相连的
And that's because time and space are really linked in the brain
而不是被设计成在4 5 6个小时内被送到一个新的时区 就是这样的
wasn't designed to be transported four, five, six hours into a new time zone. It just wasn't.
我们的大脑和生物机制
Our brain and the biological mechanisms.
控制昼夜节律的生物钟 被设计为几个小时的切换
That govern circadian timing, were designed to be shifted by a couple hours,
不一定是6个或9个或12个小时 所以你真的可能会把身体搞砸
not necessarily six or nine or twelve hours, so you really mess yourself up.
我有过这种经历 我通常经历的是情绪波动
I've had that experience, I usually experience it as fluctuations in mood.
我飞行到了与原来时区相差12个小时的地方
I flew twelve hours out of phase.
比如去纽约大学阿布扎比分校做演讲
Tabugabi wants to give a talk at N-Y-U. Abu Dhabi.
那真是一团糟 我真的有点头晕 我没有产生幻觉 但我真的非常晕
It was a mess, I actually was getting vertigo, I wasn't hallucinating, but I was really out of it.
然后我的情绪就变得一团糟 这很奇怪
And my mood was just all over the place. It was very bizarre.
时差 即使你没有经历情绪变化或失忆
Jet lag, even if you don't experience it as mood shifts or amnesia,
它也会缩短你的寿命 有一个很有趣的点
it can shorten your life. Now here's what's interesting.
在地球上向西旅行会让人更轻松舒适
Traveling westward on the globe is always easier.
相比于向东旅行
Then traveling eastward.
这很有趣 因为时差对寿命的影响表明
OK, it's interesting because the effects of jet lag on longevity.
往东旅行比往西旅行少活几年
Have shown that traveling East takes more years off your life than traveling West.
当然了 飞30分钟进入一个新的时区 或者3个小时
Now, of course traveling thirty minutes into a new time zone or three hours,
只有一两个时区的相差
just one time zone over is or two time zone over, rather.
肯定比八小时或九小时的时差  对你的生理和心理造成的伤害要小得多
Is far less detrimental to your biology and psychology than a eight hour shift or a nine hour shift.
有趣的是
Now here's what's interesting.
当我们想到时差对寿命的影响 或者时差会缩短我们的寿命
When we think about the effects of jet lag on longevity, or this idea that it can shorten our lives,
我们得问问自己 为什么
We have to ask ourselves, why?
为什么会这样呢 其实有一个很简单的解释
Why is that And it turns out there's a pretty simple explanation for this.
我们之前讲过自主神经系统
We've talked before about the autonomic nervous system,
这组位于我们脊髓中的神经元和大脑
this set of neurons in our spinal cord embody and brain
控制着我们的清醒状态和困倦状态
that regulate our wakefulness, in our sleepiness.
事实证明 人类 可能还有大多数物种 都能更好地激活它并保持警觉
Turns out that human beings, and probably most species, are better able to activate and stay alert.
这样他们就可以关闭自己的神经系统 睡觉了
Than they are to shut down their nervous system and go to sleep on demand.
所以如果你真的要逼迫你自己 要保持清醒 你可以做到 你可以熬夜
So if you really have to push and you really have to stay awake, you can do it, you can stay up later.
但早睡更难 这就是为什么向东旅行会有这种特征
But falling asleep earlier is harder, and that's why traveling East has a number of different features associated with it that.
因为你在向东旅行
Because you're traveling east, you're trying to.
如果你想早点睡觉 你知道 作为一个加州人 如果我去纽约
Go to bed earlier, you know, as a Californian. If I go to New York City.
我必须早睡3个小时 早起3个小时
I've got to get to bed three hours early, and wake up three hours early,
这比回到加州再多睡几个小时要困难得多
and much harder than coming back to California and just staying up a few more hours.
这个可能扎根在
And this probably has roots in.
适应进化中 就是在我们需要突然聚集起来的情况下
Evolutionary adaptation, where under conditions where we need to suddenly gather up and go or.
或者要捕食 斗争 或者做很多不同的事情的时候
Forge for food or fight, or, um, do any number of different things that
我们可以通过释放肾上腺素来让自己保持清醒
we can just push ourselves through the release of adrenaline and epinephraine to stay awake.
然而
Whereas.
想要放慢脚步 有意识地入睡实际上是很难做到的
Being able to slow down and deliberately fall asleep is actually much harder to do.
所以这是一个不对称的 自主神经系统 在不对称的时差反应中产生了影响
So theres an asymmetry, to our autonomic nervous system that plays out in the asymmetry of jet lag.
所以
So.
如果你想了解这个  因为有人问过我哪里可以看文献
If you want to read up on this because people have asked me about.
你可以去查  Davidson和他的同事
Papers, you can look, there's a paper published by Davidson and colleagues,
在2006年 在《当代生物学》上发表了一篇论文 讨论了
2006 in current Biology that talks about the differences in lifespan for.
向东  向西  不旅行的频率对寿命影响的差异等等
Frequent, eastward versus westward versus no travel and longevity, etc.
很多不同的关于寿命的生物学证明
A number of different biological markers of longevity.
因此 往东走更难受
So going East is harder.
因为如果你想按时早睡 那就更难了
Because going to sleep earlier is harder If you're trying to do that on demand.
许多人求助于褪黑激素来引导睡意
Many people have turned to melatonin as a way to try to induce sleepiness.
我在播客最后会谈谈褪黑激素
I'm going to talk about melatonin. At the end,
我在之前的播客中提到过 有观众询问
I've mentioned on previous podcast, a number of you have asked for the evidence that melatonin.
褪黑激素对某些激素系统有潜在的危害的证据 褪黑色素是一种激素
Potentially detrimental to some hormone systems. melatonin is a hormone,
我将在最后讨论它 特别是褪黑激素在抑制
and I'll discuss that at the end, in particular the role of melatonin in suppressing.
激素回路方面的作用 包括男性体内的黄体成长激素 睾酮
A hormone pathway that involves ltinizing hormone, testosterone in men and estrogen in.
以及女性体内的雌激素  还有一种非常有趣的肽叫做神经肽kisspeptins 这是个很酷的名字
Females as well as a really interesting peptide called Kiss Pepton as a cool name,
好吧 让我们想想旅行发生了什么
all right, well, let's think about travel, and what happens Let's say you're not.
假设你没有向东或向西 而你在向北或向南
Going eastward or westward, but you're going north or south.
比如你从华盛顿特区到智利的圣地亚哥
So if you go from for instance Washington, D-C to Santiago, chile,
或者你从以色列的特拉维夫到南非的开普敦
Or you go from Tel Aviv, israel to Cape Town, south Africa. You're just going.
你只是在南北朝向上移动 对不对 不管是朝南还是朝北
North and south, right and not, you know, either direction.
你并没有真正进入一个不同的时区 你没有切换时区
You're not really moving into a different time zone. You're not shifting,
但你还是会感到旅途疲劳
so you will experience travel fatigue.
事实证明 时差反应有两个因素 旅行疲劳和时区
And turns out that jet lag has two elements, travel, fatigue and time zone. Jet lag.
时区时差仅仅是因为当地的光照和黑暗时间无法匹配你的
Time zone jet lag is simply the inability of local sunlight and local darkness to match your.
内环境节奏 你所拥有的自身的节奏
Internal rhythm, this indogenous rhythm that you have.
所以在说得更复杂之前
So before we get too complicated.
关于这个还有两点需要澄清 我想说几件重要的事情
And two down in the weeds about this, I want to just throw out a couple important things.
首先 我之前提到过 有些人经常会有时差反应
First of all, I mentioned this earlier, but some people suffer from jet lag, a lot.
其他的人 可能就没那么多了 大多数人随着年龄的增长会经历越来越严重的时差反应
Other people, not so much, most people experience worst jet lag as they get older.
这是有原因的 因为在生命早期褪黑激素的释放模式
There are reasons for that, because early in life patterns of melatonin release.
非常稳定 平坦 非常高 实际上 在儿童中
Are very stable and flat and very high, actually, in children,
这也是他们没有经历青春期的原因之一
it's one of the reasons why they don't undergo puberty.
然后就会有时差反应 比如青春期的时候 真的
Then it becomes sick, like during puberty, meaning it.
每24小时启动一次 每24小时关闭一次 它周期循环
Comes on once every twenty four hours and turns off once every twenty four hours. It cycles cyclic.
然后随着我们年龄的增长 周期会被更频繁地打乱
And then as we get older, the cycles get more disrupted and
我们会变得更加脆弱 即使是时间安排上的微小变化 比如吃饭时间
we become more vulnerable to even small changes in schedule, etc. Meal times right.
所以
So.
时差反应随着年龄的增长而加重
Jet lag gets worse as we age.
此外 随着年龄的增长 人们还会开始减少锻炼
In addition, there are other things that happen with age that people start doing less exercise.
他们的消化能力会变差 等等
Their digestion can get worse, etc.
所以年龄对时差反应的一些影响可能不是直接因为身体的衰老
So some of the effects of age might not be direct effects of getting older,
而是还有一些伴随变老的习惯的变化
but some of the things that are correlated with being older.
就像那些喜欢定期有锻炼的人
Like people who are willing to have a regular exercise machine
可以使用这个锻炼制度来改变他们的生物钟
can use that exercise regime to shift their circadian clock.
我有一个好朋友 他的父亲已经80多岁了
And I have a good friend his father's in his eighties.
他还在 你知道的 做着 25 30个俯卧撑
Uh, he's still, you know, pushing out, you know, twenty five thirty pushups,
每天早上他都在做伸展式之类的
uh, each morning he's on the pelaton or whatever it is.
经常骑自行车 80多岁的人都在骑自行车 许多老人就不会这样
Doing a lot of cycling, so some eighty year olds are doing that. Many are not.
很多30岁的人都没有 但如果你有一个规律的锻炼计划 那么你调整生物钟
Many thirty year olds are not, but if you have a regular exercise program, that's going to make it easier.
来应对时差会更容易 这其实是一个旋钮
To shift your circadian clock for sake of jet lag, and it's actually a knob you can turn
你可以转动它来调整生物钟
and you can leverage for shifting your clock.
在继续讲下去之前 我想说
Before you go any further, I want to make.
改变你的内在节奏真的很容易
Changing your internal rhythm really easy,
至少你自己能够改变的  我相信当自己想要改变的时候
or at least as easy and as simple as one could possibly make it. I believe when I wanted.
就能成功
We make it, I believe.
我想说的是了解你的身体和大脑最重要的一点
What I want to talk about is perhaps one of the most important things to know
那就是你的最低体温
about your body and brain, which is called your temperature minimum.
大多数人都知道你的体重 有些人甚至知道你的血压
Most of you know you're approximate weight, some of you might even know your blood pressure,
有些人甚至知道你的体重指数
some of you might even know your your body mass index.
你们可能还知道自己生理上的其他东西 它们有一些很好听的名字
Some of you might know other things about your biology that have fancy names,
但是每个人都应该知道自己的最低体温
but everyone should know their temperature minimum.
你的最低体温不需要体温计来测量 尽管可以这么做
Your temperature minimum doesn't require a thermometer to measure, although you could measure it.
你的最低体温是每24小时循环中体温最低的时刻
Your temperature minimum is the point in every twenty four hour cycle when your temperature is lowest.
在没有温度计的情况下 你怎么测量它呢
Now how do you measure that without a thermometer,
它会在你起床时间前平均90分钟到2个小时下降
it tends to fall ninety minutes to two hours before your average waking time.
我想再重复一遍
So I want to repeat that your temperature minimum
你的最低体温是在你醒来前90分钟到2小时
tends to fall ninety minutes to two hours before your average waking time.
假设你没有旅行 如果你的起床时间通常是早上五点半
So let's say you're not traveling, and your typical wake up time is five thirty a M.
那你的最低体温很可能在
Your temperature minimum is very likely.
3点 30点或者4点那时候降到最低 如果你们愿意的话
Three, thirty a M or four am if you want, if any of you.
可以测量你的最低体温 你可以拿一个体温计
Want to, you can measure your temperature minimum, you can get a thermometer,
你可以在24小时内每隔几小时测量一次你的温度
and you can measure your temperature every couple hours for twenty four hours.
你可以找到你的最低体温 你会发现你有一个低点
You can find your temperature minimum. What you're going to find is that you have a low point,
温度的最低值 然后你的温度开始上升
the temperature minimum, and then your temperature will start to rise.
你会在两个小时后醒来
You'll wake up about two hours later,
然后你的体温会持续上升到下午 它会达到顶峰
Then your temperature will continue to rise into the afternoon, it will peak,
有时也会出现小小的低谷 然后
maybe a little trough sometimes that happens, and then.
当你接近夜晚的时候 它会开始慢慢下降
It'll start declining slowly as you approach night time.
有些东西会破坏这种温度变化 比如桑拿浴 冷水浴 剧烈运动
There are things that will disrupt that temperature pattern. Sauna's cold bath, intense exercise.
等等 膳食往往有一个生热效应 使温度升高
ETC, meals tend to have a thermogenic effect that increases temperature,
产生轻微的 小的波动 但整体循环 是24小时的温度循环
slightly, little blips, but the overall cycle, twenty four hour cycle of temperature.
这种模式
Has this pattern.
上次我讲了Jotakahahi和其他人的开创性工作
And last time I talked about the seminal work of Jotakahahi and others
他们已经证明了温度实际上是一个信号
who have shown that temperature actually is the signal by which
通过这个信号你的上颚上方的时钟
this clock above the roof of your mouth.
指导或集体推动我们身体的所有细胞和组织在同一时间表
In trains or collectively pushes all the cells and tissues of our body to be on the same schedule.
温度是效应器
Temperature is the effector.
一旦你听到这句话 你就能立刻反应过来
And once you hear that, there should be an immediate,
哦 当然 因为不然你怎么把
oh, of course, because how else would you get.
所有这些不同的 多样的细胞类型
All these different, diverse cell types.
按照同一种模式运作
To follow one pattern, write a pancreatic cell does something very different than a.
一个胰脏细胞与脾细胞或者神经元工作模式是不同的 对吧
You know, A-A spleen cell or A-A neuron, right?
它们都以不同的节奏做着不同的事情
They're all doing different things at different rates.
这样温度信号就可以发出去 然后每一个都可以把温度信号
So the temperature signal can go out, and then each one of those can interpret
解读为一个统一的 一致的环境基调
the temperature signal as one unified and consistent theme of their environment.
所以
So.
体温
Temperatures.
因人而异 有些人的体温是98.6华氏度 有些人的体温更低 等等
Vary from person to person, some people are 98.6, some people run a little colder, etc,
但你有一个低点 你有一个高点  你有最低体温
but you have a low point, you have a high point, no, your temperature minimum.
你怎么找出这个温度呢？ 这个最小值
How are you going to figure out this temperature, minimum?
最低体温可以通过三到五次测量来确定
The temperature minimum can be determined by taking the last three to five.
根据起床时间 假设你早上7点 8点 3点起床 对有人会在3点起床
Wake up times, so let's say You wake up seven am, eight am, three am. Right happens.
得到所有数据  把它们相加
Take those, add them together, average them by adding them up
然后除以天数求平均值 这就得到了平均值
and dividing by the number of days. That'll give you the average.
如果你是那种凌晨三点就起床的人
If you're one of these people that wakes up at three am.
然后继续睡觉 一直睡到十点 你在早上十点醒来
And then goes back to sleep and sleep till ten, you wake up time with ten a M.
如果你用闹钟 你起床的时间就是你被闹钟叫醒的时间 好吗
If you use an alarm clock, your wake up, time is still when you get up, OK?
我知道闹钟被妖魔化了 但在我的世界里
I know alarm clocks have been kind of demonized, but in my world,
迟到和错过约定时间也被妖魔化了 所以我会用闹钟
being late and missing appointments is also demonized, so I use an alarm clock.
许多人每天都会在同一时间醒来
Many people will wake up at exactly the same time each day.
每个人都会有一些变化
There tends to be some variation for people, some people,
有些人的变化 取决于生活环境 但平均是3到7天就能测量准确
it's going to vary, depending on life circumstances, but average that for three to seven days or so.
就拿起床时间来说 然后你可以得到一个平均值
Take that wake up time. You can then get an average.
或者是典型的最低体温 好了 现在你知道如何得到最低体温了
Or sort of typical temperature minimum. OK, so now you know how to get your temperature minimum.
你的最低体温是一个数
Your temperature minimum is.
最低体温是改变你的生物钟的绝对参考点
Your absolute reference point for shifting your circadian clock,
无论是否为时差或轮班工作或其他目的 一定要看最低体温的时间
whether or not, for jet lag or shift work or some other for purpose.
接下来我讲一下怎么做
Here's the deal.
把眼睛暴露在强光下
If you expose your eyes to bright light,
暴露大概四小时 五到六小时也勉强可以 在体温降到最低之后 暴露四小时
In the four hours, maybe five or six, but in the four hours after your temperature minimum,
那么你的生物钟
Your circadian clock.
就会进行调整  在随后的日子里  让你更早起床 更早睡觉
Will shift so that you will tend to get up earlier and go to sleep earlier. In the subsequent days.
好的 如果你想进一步了解这是什么 这就是所谓的相位提前
OK, so what's called a phase advance, if you'd like to read up on this further,
你可以提前你的生物钟
you advance your clock.
不过 如果看强光的时间  是在你达到最低体温之前的4到6个小时
OK, however, if you view bright light in the four to six hours before your temperature minimum,
那你的生物钟就会延迟 你会倾向于晚起床
You will tend to phase delay your clock, you will tend to wake up later.
然后入睡时间也会变晚 好吧
And go to sleep later? Okay?
我要重复一遍 因为大家都很困惑
I'm going to repeat this because there's so much confusion out there,
在谈论昼夜节律时间之类的时候 找到你的最低体温
and people talk about circadian time and all this, find your temperature minimum.
我往往在早上6点左右醒来
I tend to wake up at about six am.
有时6点半 有时7点 这很大程度上取决于我前一晚做了什么
Sometimes six thirty, sometimes seven, it depends a lot on what I was doing the night before is,
我猜对你来说也是这样的 这意味着我的体温的最低点
I'm guessing it does for you, but that means that my temperature, minimum.
大概是在早上四点半左右 也就是说
Is probably somewhere right around four thirty a M, which means that if I wake up at.
如果我在凌晨4:30起床 那马上在凌晨4:35去看明亮的灯光
At 4:30 am and I were to view bright light at 4:35 am.
就能提前我的生物时钟 我会在接下来的晚上更早睡觉
I'm going to advance my clock, I'm going to want to go to bed earlier the subsequent night
在接下来的早晨更早起床
and wake up earlier the subsequent morning.
当我调整起床时间的时候
And as I shift my wake up time.
我的最低体温也会变化 对吧 因为每次我们改变醒来时间
My temperature minimum shifts, too, right? Because each time we shift our wake up time,
我们的最低体温的时间就会改变
our temperature minimum shifts.
这边前提是醒来时间的调整要超过 三十分钟 一个小时
Assuming that wake up time shifts more than an, you know, thirty minutes or an hour, okay?
如果我在凌晨4:30之前的4到6个小时看到亮光
If I were to view bright light in the four to six hours before thirty a, M,
下一个晚上我就会想要熬夜
guess what The next night I'm going to want to stay up later.
我想在随后的早晨  晚一点再醒来
And I'm gonna want to wake up later. The subsequent morning.
你的最低体温是一个参考时间点 重点不在温度度数上
Your temperature minimum is a reference point, not a temperature reading.
如果你想测量最低体温  量出它是多少
Again, if you want to measure your temperature minimum and figure out what it is,
98华氏度 或者96华氏度 没关系量吧
98 point, whatever, ninety six point, whatever, that's fine,
你可以这样做 但是这个信息没什么用
you can do that, but that information won't help You.
你真正要知道的是  体温降到最低的时间点
What you need to know is what time your body temperature is lowest,
并且要明白在那之后的四个小时左右
and understand that in the four hours or so just after that time,
看一看灯光会使你的生物钟提前 让你想早起
Viewing light will advance your clock to make you want to get up earlier.
在你最低体温前的4个小时  看灯光
And the four hours before your temperature, minimum, viewing light will
会让你想晚睡
make you want to stay up later.
有些人可能会说 我起得早 而且还晚睡
Now some people might be saying, well, I wake up early and I want to stay up late,
我整天都很困 感觉很糟 或者我感觉没什么问题
and I'm sleepy all day and I'm a mess, or I feel fine. Look,
好  让我们谈谈“感觉没问题”这种情况
Let's talk about feeling fine.
事实证明 失眠的定义是
Turns out the definition of insomnia is
当你在白天经历过度的困倦时
when you're experiencing excessive sleepiness during the day,
这里要注意困倦和疲劳是不同的
sleepiness and fatigue are different.
在睡眠医学领域 疲劳是身体上的疲惫
OK, so in the world of sleep medicine, fatigue is a physical exhaustion,
困倦是想要入睡
sleepiness is falling asleep.
比如在课桌上睡着或者在上课时睡着
Like falling asleep at your desk or falling asleep during lectures,
或者我的课有一些特别 让同学们想要睡觉
or there seems to be something special about my lectures that makes people want to
如果这能治好你的失眠 那还真的挺好的
fall asleep. So if this cures your insomnia, fantastic.
但是 正经一点说
However, in all seriousness,
白天嗜睡是失眠的一种表现 除非是在体温达到峰值哪个时间段
Sleepiness during the daytime, unless it's around your temperature peak,
而那个时间段只持续90分钟左右
and only lasts about ninety minutes or so, is a sign of insomnia.
白天嗜睡就是睡眠不足的标志
It's a sign of lack of sleep.
我想非常非常明确地说
I want to be very, very clear that.
如果你知道你的最低体温的时间 你久可以用光来改变你的生物钟
If you know your temperature minimum, you can shift your clock using light.
你也可以用其他方法改变
You can also shift your clock.
比如在达到最低体温的4个小时后  进行运动
By engaging in exercise in the four hours after your temperature minimum,
你在之后就能早起 或者在之前运动来推迟你的生物钟
to wake up earlier on subsequent nights or exercise before then to delay your clock.
好了 现在你可以开始看到并理解这个系统的逻辑了
OK, so now you can start to see and understand the logic of this system,
我们之后会讨论为什么这些会起作用  以及它背后的生物学原理
and we'll talk about why this works and the underlying biology. But.
你要了解温度是影响因素 了解你有这个体温低点
Understanding that temperature is the effector and understanding that you have this low point,
它反映了你最困的时刻 基本上 就在你醒来之前
and that reflects your most sleepy point, essentially, right before waking up.
然后体温上升 你之后就可以开始根据你的旅行需要
And then temperature rises, you can now start to shift that temperature,
调整温度
according to your travel needs.
举个例子来说明怎么做 假设我要去欧洲旅行
Here's one way in which you might do that, let's say I am going to travel to Europe,
时区就是提前9个小时 我通常是从加州出发
which is nine hours ahead, typically from California.
我想确定我的最低体温时间 对我来说大概是早上4点半 或者5点
I would want to determine my temperature minimum, which for me is about four thirty a M,
然后我就会在那个时候开始起床
maybe five am. And I would want to start getting up.
大概在
At about.
早上5点30分的时候 接受一些强光照射 基本上是人工光源
Five thirty a M and getting some bright light exposure, presumably from artificial sources,
因为阳光在那个时候还没出来
because the light, the sunlight isn't going to be out at that time.
甚至可以锻炼 甚至可以吃一顿早饭 如果这是你的习惯的话
Maybe even exercising as well, maybe even eating a meal at that time, if that's in your practice.
你应该在旅行前两三天开始就这么做
You would want to start doing that two or three days before travel.
因为一旦你降落在目的地  比如说我降落在欧洲
Because once you land in where I land in Europe.
在欧洲看日出或日落
Chances are just viewing the sunrise or sunset in Europe is not going to
并不能让我改变我的生物钟
allow me to shift my circuiting clock.
有人说会 刚落地的时候就要让阳光照进眼睛 但是
Some people say, get sunlight in your eyes when you land. But.
这行不通 因为
That's not going to work because.
像这样的九小时倒时差只可能会发生两种情况
One of two things is likely to happen with a nine hour shift like that,
要么我会在昼夜节律死区的时间
either I'm going to view sunlight.
看到阳光  那个时间段
At a time that corresponds to the circadian dead zone,
我的昼夜节律时钟没有办法被调整
the time in which my circadian clock can't be shifted.
或者我看到的阳光
Or I'm going to end up viewing sunlight at a time that corresponds to
是在最低体温的4到6小时之前的那个时间段
the four to six hour window before.
所以它只会让生物钟
My temperature minimum, so it's going to shift me in exactly
朝着相反的方向调整
the opposite direction that I want to go.
所以调整时差对人们来说是非常非常具有挑战性的
So it can be very, very challenging for people to adjust a jet lag.
所以你得问问自己 我是在向东边旅行
So you need to ask, in my traveling East.
还是向西旅行  我是想让我的生物钟提前还是延迟
Or am I traveling west Am I trying to advance my clock or delay my clock
记住
Remember.
在你的最低体温之前的4到6个小时内  看光线  运动和进食
Viewing light exercise and eating in the four to six hours before your temperature minimum
会延迟你的生物钟
will delay your clock eating.
看光线  运动和进食  你不必同时做这三件事
Viewing sunlight and exercising, you don't have to do all three,
但在你的体温达到最低后的四到六个小时之后 把这三件事结合起来做
but combination of those in the four to six hours after your temperature, minimum.
这会让你的生物钟提前 这是一种强大的机制
Will advance your clock, and this is a powerful mechanism by which 
通过这种机制  你可以将你的生物钟一天调整1-3小时
you can shift your clock anywhere from one to three hours per day.
这真的很厉害 这意味着你的最低体温
Which is remarkable, that means your temperature minimum is going to
将会调整三个小时
shift out as much as three hours, which can make it such that
这样如果你要去欧洲
you can travel all the way to Europe.
只要你在家准备一天左右   就像我描述的那样
And in as long as you've prepared for a day or so, by doing what I described back home,
当你到达目的地的时候
And then doing it when you arrive, you can potentially accomplish the entire shift
你就可以在24到36小时内完成整个生物钟调整
within, anywhere from twenty four to thirty six hours, and.
强调这一点非常重要
This is really important to emphasize.
一旦你到达你的新地点 这里我说的是向东旅行
That once you arrive in your new location, and here I'm talking about traveling eastward,
从加利福尼亚到欧洲  一旦你到达你的新地点
california to Europe once you arrive in your new location.
你必须记录你在家里的最低体温是多少
You have to keep track of what your temperature minimum was back home
以及在旅途中温度是如何变化的 这比你想象的要容易得多
and how it's being shifted during your trip. Now it's much easier to do than you think.
智能手机有一个不好
One of the unfortunate consequences of.
就是
The smartphone is that.
你不能做一些 呃 死板的事情 比如戴两块手表
You can't do, uh, you know, something goofy, like wearing two watches,
一块手表对应的是家里的时间
one watch that corresponds to the time back home,
另一块手表对应的是当地时间
and another one that corresponds to the local time.
通常手机时间会根据Wi-fi等自动更新
Typically it updates automatically based on Wi fi, etc.
但如果你能跟着家那边的时间
But if you can keep track of the time back home.
然后你就可以很容易地把你的时钟往前拨 我希望你们能听懂
Then you can easily shift your clock going forward. I'm hoping this makes sense.
我想强调的是 你不必精确到一分钟
I really want to emphasize that you don't have to be precise down to the minute.
有些人可能会问
Some of you may be asking well.
要是我知道温度最低值在哪
What about, you know, you've got this temperature minimum,
如果我在那个点前一分钟  看光线
and if I view light one minute before it,
那么我将延迟生物钟一分钟
then I'm going to delay my clock, and one minute after it,
我要提前我就... 不是这样的
I'm going to advance my clock. It doesn't quite work like that, OK?
但是要理解  光是我们改变生物钟的主要方式  知道这点是非常重要的
But it's very important to understand that light is the primary way in which we can shift our clock.
现在你们应该也能理解一些东西
And now you should also be able to understand things
比如昼夜节律死区 大概是从上午9点到30点10点
like the circadian dead zone from about nine, thirty ten a M.
一直到你体温降到最低前六个小时
All the way until six hours before your temperature, minimum.
在那段时间里  什么都不会改变你的生物钟的
You're not going to shift your clock. Nothing that you do in that time
你在光线 行为 进食等方面所做的任何事情都不会改变你的生物钟
in terms of light, viewing, behavior, feeding, etc, is going to shift your clock.
所以很多人来到欧洲 把阳光照到眼睛里
And so a lot of people are landing in Europe getting sunlight in their eyes
把他们的生物钟弄得一团糟 或者根本不调整生物钟
and throwing their clock out a whack or not shifting their clock at all.
这让我想到另一件强烈推荐的方法
This brings me to the other thing that's highly recommended.
我之前提到过 如果你想按照当地的进食时间吃饭
And I've mentioned this before, but you want to eat on the local meal schedule,
如果你的习惯是断食 那你没关系
if it's in your practice to fast fast, that's fine.
但是当你要吃东西的时候 你想要在当地的进食时间内吃东西以保持清醒 对吧
But when you eat, you want to eat within the local schedule for alertness. OK?
这意味着 如果你到了那边 大家都在吃早餐
That means if you arrive and everyone's eating breakfast and
而你一点都不想吃
you can't stomach the idea of breakfast.
你在全新的地方 因为你的胃口还没有
Your new location, because your appetite isn't there,
这意味着生物钟和你的肝脏 你的肝脏里有一个生物钟
that means the clock and your liver, you have a clock in your liver,
那个生物钟还没有跟上新的时区
biological clock has not caught up to the new time Zone.
如果你想 你可以强迫自己吃
You can force yourself to eat if you like.
或者你可以跳过那顿饭 但你不能按照你的在家用餐时间表
Or you can skip that meal, but what you don't want to do is stay on your home meal schedule.
你可能要半夜醒来吃东西
Waking up in the middle of the night and eating.
那真的会把事情搞砸 因为
That is really going to throw things off, because.
很多末梢周围的生物钟 比如肝脏
A lot of the clocks in the periphery, like from the the liver,
末梢会把信息传回大脑
the peripheral body will send information back to the brain,
然后大脑就会接收到非常矛盾的信号
and then the brain is getting really conflicted. Signals.
所以最低体温是你调整生物钟的最佳定位点
So the temperature minimum is really your anchor point for shifting your clock best.
我不知道为什么这个信息还没被大众所接收到
I don't know why this information really hasn't made it into.
倒是有很多关于服用褪黑激素
the popular sphere, quite so much, there's all sorts of stuff about taking things like melatonin
“双耳节拍” 这种类似东西的信息
using binaural beats, a lot of kind of like.
这些都是更微妙 更复杂 还存在潜在的隐患
Uh, more sophisticated, complicated and potentially problematic, uh,
来改变生物钟的方法
ways of trying to shift the clock.
我们来谈谈褪黑激素
Let's talk about melatonin.
但首先我想暂停一下
But first I just want to pause and.
稍微改变一下顺序 因为我刚才讲的是向东旅行
Shift gears a little bit because I talked about traveling eastward.
但我们还没有谈到向西旅行 所以我想先说一下向西旅行
But we haven't talked about traveling westward, so I want to do that.
现在  假设你从纽约旅行到加利福尼亚  或者从欧洲旅行到加利福尼亚
Now let's say you're traveling from New York to California or from Europe to California.
这边大家会觉得困难的地方在于
The challenge there tends to be.
怎么能熬到那么晚才睡觉 现在 有些人能够做到这一点
How can you stay up late enough? Now, some people are able to do this
是因为我之前提到过的 自主神经系统是不对称的
because as I mentioned earlier, the autonomy nervous system is asymmetrically wired.
因此 晚睡比早睡更容易
Such that it's easier to stay up late later than we would naturally want to
假设你在目的地着陆了
than it is to go to sleep earlier. So let's say you land.
下午4点  你感觉很不好 你从欧洲来到加州
And it's 4 PM, and you're just dying, you're in California, you came from Europe, and you.
你真的真的很想睡觉 这个时候就可以用到咖啡因 运动
You really really want to go to sleep. That's where the use of things like caffeine exercise.
还有阳光  这些都可以让你改变生物钟 如果你的温度已经达到峰值
And sunlight can shift you right, if it's after your temperature peak.
然后在下午6点或8点左右看阳光 或者 嗯 如果没有阳光的话 看人造光
Then viewing sunlight around six PM or eight PM, or, um, artificial light, if there's in sunlight,
都会帮助你调整 延迟
will help shift you.
它将会延迟你的时钟
Later, right? It's going to be, it's going to delay your clock
然后你就能晚睡
and you're going to be able to stay up later.
你最不应该做的事就是睡午觉
The worst thing you can do is take a nap that was intended to last.
通常持续20分钟到1个小时 我平时经常这样做 然后4个小时后醒来
Twenty minutes or an hour, I do this routinely, and then wake up four hours later,
或者在大半夜醒来 就无法再睡着
or you wake up at, and it's midnight and you can't fall back asleep.
所以一定不要午睡
You really want to avoid doing that.
所以只要不是过量服用一些刺激物
So provided it's not excessive amounts, stimulants like.
比如 咖啡或茶中的咖啡因
Caffeine in coffee or tea can really help you
那么它真的可以帮助你克服下午的障碍 让你入睡
push past that afternoon barrier and get you to sleep.
更加能够跟着当地时间走  跟着当地时间安排进食
More like on the local schedule and eating on the local schedule as well.
很多人询问过褪黑激素的作用
Number of people have asked about the use of melatonin to induce sleepiness.
好吧 我们来讲讲
All right, well, let's.
想想褪黑激素是什么 褪黑激素是松果体释放的一种激素
Think about what melatonin is, melatonin is this hormone that's released from the pineo gland,
而松果体就是个腺体
which is this gland.
讲一些关于松果体的知识点 因为我收到了很多关于松果体的问题
A couple notes about the pineal, because I've been getting a lot of questions about this.
我可能会招来一些批评
I'm probably going to draw some fire for this, but um, I'd,
但我很乐意跟我们之前的同行评议论文
I'd be happy to have a thoughtful, considerate debate with some
进行一场深思熟虑的辩论
peer reviewed papers in front of us.
松果体制造了一种叫DMT的致幻分子
The pineo does make this hallucingenic molecule they call DMT.
但它的量不大 并不会导致你在睡眠和做梦时
But in such maniscular amounts that it is not responsible
看到的幻觉
for the hallucinations you see in sleep and dreaming.
抱歉 朋友们 它也没有大到 像你用的其他致幻剂那样 看到幻想
Sorry, folks, it's also not responsible for the hallucinations You might see through other.
它不是 它不是DMT的来源
Approaches to DMT, it's just not that's not where the DMT comes from.
它是微乎其微的量
It's infinitesimally small amounts.
有很多古怪的说法 关于钙化的松果和氟化物
There are a lot of kind of wacky claims out there about calsification of the pineo and fluoride,
以及类似的事情
and this kind of thing.
听着 松果体位于大脑第四脑室附近
Look, the pineal sits in an area of the brain near the fourth ventricle where.
离颅骨并不是很远 虽然上面有一些神经组织
The skull is not terribly far away, although there's some overlying neural tissue, and.
但是随着年龄的增长
With age, there are some.
一些脑膜和周围的其他东西聚集在一起粘在头骨上
Aggregation of some of the meninges and other things around there that stick to the skull.
所以年轻的大脑不像年老的大脑 没有钙化的松果体
Young brains don't look like old brains, but there's no calcification of the pioneal.
好了 不要再想着钙化的事情了 松果体是个问题
All right, so you can forget about callification. The pineal is a problem.
我不知道这一切是从哪里开始的 但是这不是问题
I don't know where that whole thing got started, but um that's not an issue.
你的松果体会给人的一生带来大量的褪黑激素
Your pineal will churn out melatonin my whole life.
褪黑激素诱发嗜睡 褪黑激素在成长过程中也有作用
Melatonin induces sleepiness. Melatonin during development, is also responsible.
对青春期至关重要的荷尔蒙分泌 有重要作用
For timing the secretion of certain hormones that are vitally important for puberty.
那褪黑激素是否非直接 而是间接地控制着青春期的开始呢？
Does melatonin control the onset of puberty, not directly but indirectly?
褪黑激素会抑制一种叫做“促黄体生成激素释放激素”的物质
Melatonin inhibits something called cannatatropin releasing hormone,
这种激素是从下丘脑释放出来的
which is a hormone that's released from your hypothalamus,
大概也就是在你上颚上方  大脑那边
also roughly above the roof of your mouth in your brain.
促黄体生成激素释放激素  非常有趣因为它刺激了另一种荷尔蒙的释放
Ginatropin releasing hormone is really interesting because it stimulant stimulates the release
这种荷尔蒙叫做促黄体激素 它在女性体内
of another hormone called ltinizing hormone, which in females causes.
促进雌激素在卵巢内释放
Estrogen to be released within the ovaries.
它参与了生殖周期 在男性刺激中
It's involved in reproductive cycles, and in male stimulates,
睾丸的塞尔托利氏细胞分泌的睾酮
testosterone from the sartolly cells of the of the testes.
褪黑激素抑制GNRH 促黄体生成激素释放激素
Melatonin is inhibitory to GNRH, Ginatropin releasing hormone,
从而抑制LH 促黄体激素
and therefore is inhibitory to LH, ltinizing hormone,
从而抑制睾酮和雌激素
and therefore is inhibitory to testosterone and estrogen.
没有其他方法可以生成这些激素
Just no two ways about it.
有
There is.
它有大量的数据表明高水平的褪黑激素在季节性繁殖的动物身上
It immense amount of data on the fact that high levels of melatonin in seasonally breathing and.
褪黑激素把漂亮而健壮的卵巢
Breeding animals takes the ovaries for nice and robust ovaries that
原本那些卵巢能够排卵 诸如此类
are capable of deploying eggs. And this kind of thing.
确实是缩小了它们 让这些动物无法受孕
Literally shrinking them and making these animals infertile.
这些褪黑激素在季节性繁殖的动物中含量很高 在冬天
These are very high levels of melatonin in seasonal breeders, in winter.
季节性繁殖的雄性体内的褪黑激素会使其睾丸萎缩
Melatonin, in males of seasonal breeders, takes the testes and shrinks them.
很久以前 当我在加州大学伯克利分校读硕士的时候
Long ago, when I was at UC Berkeley as a master student,
当时我在学神经生态学 我们在研究
I was working on neuronecronology, and we were working on.
这种季节性繁殖的仓鼠
Um, this hamster species of seasonal breeders,
白天很长时 会抑制褪黑激素
and basically when days are long, which inhibits melatonin.
这些被称为西伯利亚仓鼠的小仓鼠
These little Siberian hamsters, as they're called,
睾丸大小和普通的食用葡萄差不多 虽然这么说出来有点奇奇怪怪的
have testes about the size of sort of typical table grapes, although that's a weird way to put it.
但随着白天变短 褪黑激素信号变长
When days get shorter and the melatonin signal gets longer,
因为光抑制褪黑激素 白天变短 褪黑激素变长
because light inhibits melatonin, days get shorter, melaton gets longer, those same.
相同仓鼠的睾丸大概有一粒米那么大
Hamsters would have testes that would involute to the size of about a grain of rice.
但这么短时间内 人类身上不会发生这些
Now this does not happen in humans.
尽管如此 褪黑激素信号确实
In short days, but nonetheless, the melatonin signal really does
对激素系统有很大的影响
have a ton of effects on the hormone system. Now.
这是否意味着如果你一直服用褪黑激素
Does that mean that if you've been taking melatonin,
那就真的会破坏你的荷尔蒙 不一定
you've really screwed up your hormones, not necessarily,
这是否意味着如果一个孩子一直服用褪黑激素 那会破坏他们的青春期发育
does it mean if a kid has been taking melatonin, that's really screwing up their puberty,
不一定 我来说一下为什么
not necessarily. And here's why.
褪黑激素要在一定浓度水平上才能起作用
Melotonin operates on a concentration level.
所以对于一个孩子来说 要有非常非常高的
So in a child, that's very, very.
高水平的褪黑激素 才会实际上抑制GNRH LH 睾丸激素或雌激素
That has high levels of melatonin, it actually can inhibit Gnrhlh, testosterone or estrogen,
具体哪个激素取决于孩子的性别
depending on it. The sex of the child.
但随着孩子的成长  其他机制如成长 骨骼释放 等等
But as that child grows through other mechanisms like growth, hone release, etc.
松果体释放的同样数量的褪黑激素
That same amount of melatonin released from the pioneal
就被稀释到一个更大的身体上 所以浓度实际上下降了很多
is now diluted over a bunch larger body, so the concentration actually goes way way down.
好的 但是补充褪黑素有个问题 我在之前的节目中提到过
OK, but here's the problem with supplementing melatonin, as I mentioned in the previous episode.
许多商业补品中褪黑激素的浓度
Concentrations of melatonin in many commercial supplements have been shown to be
都是瓶上所列的85%到400%之间
anywhere from 85% to 400% of what's listed on the bottle.
所以当你服用褪黑激素时 儿童服用褪黑激素时
So when you take melatonin, where a child takes melatonin, oftentimes,
通常是超生理水平的褪黑激素
they are taking super physiological levels of melatonin, which.
至少从我阅读过的文献中反映出
At least by my read and the literature.
它会对青春期这样的事情  对它时间和进程产生巨大影响
Says that it could have dramatic effects on timing and course of things like puberty.
所以
So.
没有什么期刊显示说
It's not so much that the journals have come out saying, oh, taking.
服用褪黑激素会抑制青春期
That melatonin inhibits puberty is that
那是因为没有一项单独的研究  会在正在发育的儿童身上
no single study has been done with the superphysiological levels of melatonin
用含有超剂量褪黑激素的补品做实验
that are present in a lot of these supplements in developing children,
当你想在你到达的新地方  想要入睡时
so melatonin is used widely for inducing sleepiness
褪黑激素被广泛用于诱导睡意
when you want to fall asleep in the new location that you've arrived.
你睡不着 你吃了褪黑激素 帮助你入睡
You can't fall asleep. You take melatonin helps you fall asleep.
它不会帮助你保持睡眠
It does not help you stay asleep.
除此之外
In addition to that.
褪黑激素一直被吹捧为改变生物钟的最佳方式
Melatonin has been kind of touted as the best way to shift your circadian clock.
我很乐意公开告诉你
I'm happy to go on record saying,
听着 如果你真的需要褪黑激素
look, if you need melatonin,
你可以找医生或者真正了解昼夜节律和睡眠生物学的人
you can work with a doctor or somebody who really understands circadian and sleep biology,
去吃吧 如果这就是你的方式
go for it, if that's your thing. But.
但是  我和往常一样 不管是在这个播客 还是其他地方
I as always, on this podcast and elsewhere, I.
我倾向于用那些可以模式化和控制的行为
I have a biased toward behavioral things that you can typerate and control,
比如暴露在光线下 运动 温度等等
like exposure to light, exercise, temperature, etc, that have much bigger.
这些都有更高的安全系数 当然也不会对我们一直在讨论和担心的
Margins for safety and certainly don't have these other endocrine effects that
对内分泌产生影响 所以
we've been thinking about and talking about. So.
如果你想在下午或晚上服用褪黑激素来入睡
If you want to take melatonin in the afternoon in order to fall asleep or in the evening,
没关系 这取决于你 但我再次强调 是你要对自己的健康负责 不是我
be my guest, that's up to you, again, you're responsible for your health, not Me.
但对很多人来说 褪黑激素并不是最好的解决方案
But for many people, melatonin is not going to be the best solution.
最好的解决办法是利用光线 温度和锻炼
The best solution is going to be to use light and temperature and exercise.
在最低体温的两侧调整你的生物钟
On either side of the temperature minimum to shift your clock,
包括旅行前和降落到新地点时 开始调整你的生物钟
both before your trip and when you land in your new location and your clock starts to shift.
好了 现在你知道了我对褪黑素的看法 请通过你自己对褪黑素的看法和经历来过滤它们
OK, so now you know my opinions about melatonin, feel free to filter them through your own opinions and experiences with melatonin.
现在你也知道你的最低体温在什么时候
And now you also understand what your temperature minimum is
以及它代表了一个重要的参考标准
and how it represents an important landmark.
任何一边你都可以利用光线 温度和运动来改变你的生物钟
Either side of which you can use light, temperature and exercise to shift your clock.
提醒大家一下温度 如果你想改变生物钟的话
Just remind you a little bit about temperature, if you want to shift your clock.
一般来说 你可以先洗个热水澡
Typically, you would do that by you take a hot shower,
然后洗完热水澡会起到降温的作用
and then that will have a cooling effect after the hot shower.
如果你要洗冷水澡或冰水浴 如果你能接受
And if you were to get into a cold shower or an ice bath, if you have access to one,
那么洗完之后 你的身体会产生生热效应 使体温升高
afterward, there's going to be a thermogenic effect of your body increasing Temperature.
想想你在家的时候 你的内在节奏 一切都稳定的时候
And if you just think about your natural rhythm back home, when everything's stable,
是的 但是
Yeah, but.
最低点是 你的最低体温的低点 然后你会有一个峰值
A nadir, a low point in which is your temperature minimum, and then you have a peak,
当你在洗热水澡或冷水澡的时候
and you think about when you're doing this hot or cold shower.
在这个节奏中 现在你应该能理解你是如何改变节奏的
In that rhythm, now you should be able to understand how you're shifting your rhythm,
温度节奏会改变 给你们一个例子
that temperature rhythm is the one that's going to move, give you an example.
如果我早上醒来
If I were to wake up in the morning,
假设 我早上6点醒来 我的体温 我知道它在上升
And let's say, I wake up six, I am, my temperature, I know is rising,
我已经过了最低体温那个时间点  如果我要洗热水澡的话
I've passed my temperature minimum if I were to get into a hot shower.
这样我出来的时候体温就会降低
That would then lower my body temperature when I got out.
而通常早上醒来的体温是不会下降的
That is not normally what's happening first thing in the morning.
因此 我的生物钟很可能会延迟
And therefore, my clock would very likely get phase delayed.
它会延迟温度的升高 而如果我要洗冷水澡
It's going to delay the increase in temperature, whereas if I got to a cold shower,
我其实有时候也不太喜欢早上洗冷水澡 但是
something I don't personally like to do, but.
时不时地做一个冰浴 它会让我的体温反弹 上升
Have done from time to time where an ice bath that's going to then have a rebound
并让我的生物钟提前
increase in body temperature, and is going to phase advance my clock.
让我下午的体温高峰提前到来
That peak in the afternoon is going to come.
大约提前一个小时 然后晚上会想早点上床睡觉
About an hour earlier, I'm going to want to go to bed earlier later that night.
所以你可以开始尝试这种时间的调整 热和冷的调整
So you can start to play these games with timing and hot and cold.
吃饭时间 看你吃不吃饭
With meals, whether or not you eat or you don't eat,
或者接受光 看你看不看光
and with light exposure, whether or not you view light or you don't.
按你自己的来 那么现在你可以开始了解为什么理解系统的核心机制
If you like, so now you can start to see why understanding the core mechanics of a system
能够给你最大的灵活性 选择余地 因为
can really give you the most flexibility because.
接下来我就可以用这部分知识
I could spend the next.
在之后的25年时间里  解决每一个关于旅行模式的细微差别的问题
Twenty five years of my life answering every question about every nuanced pattern of travel,
我们先去悉尼 然后再去那里 我该怎么办
well, we're going to Sydney, then we're going there. What should I do,
你可以自己操作了
but that's on you.
你需要计算出你的温度 最低体温和最高温度 只要你自己愿意
You need to figure out your temperature, minimum and your temperature peak, if you like.
然后使用这些参数 它给了你灵活性
And then use these parameters to, it gives you flexibility.
这强调的是 最重要的是
And that really underscores, the most important thing,
当你理解了机制之后
is that when you understand mechanism, it's not.
它就不再是刻板遵守某种方法
About being neurotically attached to a specific protocol.
恰恰相反
It's the opposite.
它赋予你能力 让你不再紧张地执着于某个特定的方法
It gives you power to not be neurotically attached to a specific protocol.
它能给你极大的自信和灵活性 让你能够随心所欲地调整你的身体节奏
It can give you great confidence and flexibility in being able to shift your body rhythms
当你的身体出现什么问题的时候   你就能把它们调整回原来的地方
however you want, and when things get out, whack, you can tuck them right back into Place.
有一件事很常见 那就是人们会有短暂的旅行
One thing that's common is that people need to do a quick trip.
你并不总是要去 去度假两周或者
It's not always that you're going to go to, you know, on vacation for two weeks or.
在别的地方连续工作几周
Work someplace else for weeks on End.
如果你的旅程是48小时或更少 请按照你的原有时间表生活
If your trip is forty eight hours or less, stay on your home schedule.
这可能很困难 可能需要根据你的原来的日程  来安排会议
This can be tough, and it may require scheduling meetings according to your home schedule.
但如果你能做到
But if you can.
无论如何能做到按照原来的那样 最好的办法就是按照你的家庭时间表来做
Somehow manage that, the best thing to do would be to stay on your home schedule.
你的生物钟不会变动几个小时 而且还能正常工作
Your clock is not going to shift more than a couple hours, even if you do everything correctly.
在一天里
In one day,
如果我要去旅行 比如说去欧洲 我就做过这样的事
OK, so if I were to travel, say to Europe, I've actually done this,
我有去瑞士的博斯勒 只待了24小时 做了一个演讲 然后回来
I did a twenty four hour trip to Bosle, switzerland, gave a talk and came back.
大家都觉得这太疯狂了 但是
People thought it was crazy. But.
我只有点旅行疲劳 因为会产生实际旅行带来的疲劳
I-A little bit of travel fatigue, because remember there's fatigue from the actual travel experience.
这种新的环境 飞机上的空气从来都不是很好
The novelty of it, the air and is never great on the planes.
一直都这样 飞机上有很多很多的要求之类的
This was even true before, there were mass requirements and things like that.
你会感觉到旅途疲劳 但你的生物钟不会失去控制 如果你待上48个小时 那么
There's the travel fatigue, but you don't throw your clock off. If you stay forty eight hours, then.
生物钟会有一点改变了
You start to shift a little bit.
如果是72小时 那开始有麻烦了 飞行时间也很重要
Seventy two that's when you start running into trouble, the transit time is also important,
但我要说的是 如果旅行只有三天或更短 那么保持你原来的时间表
but I would say, if it's three days or less, stay on your home schedule.
尽你所能 因为阳光不是你能控制的
As much as you can, and because sunlight isn't under your control,
一定会对你身体造成一点影响 我不知道
must have something about you, I don't know.
那么带着一些亮光旅行 就比如我的灯光板
That's when traveling with some sort of bright light, like the light pad that I have.
我之前展示的那个
Down there that I showed earlier.
对于没有听过之前节目的听众们 可能不知道  就是一个大概8.5*11寸的pad
For those of you listening just on audio, it's just, it lux like an eight and a half by eleven pad.
其实它不是为环行人而设计的 它实际上是设计作为 它是一个画板
It's actually not designed for a wake up. It's actually designed, it's a drawing pad.
可以发出一千勒克斯
And you can emits about a thousand lux.
的光
Of of light.
如果你想带着这样的设备旅行
And so if you want to travel with something like that,
你可以在酒店房间里用它来唤醒自己
you can use that in your hotel room to wake up when you like.
有些人会用 呃 眼罩 你知道的 呃
Some people will use, uh night shades, you know, the, um,
不是吃的那种  有些人还说不应该吃的什么的
not the night shades that you eat or that some people say you're not supposed to eat,
对那个我一无所知 但是呃
I don't know anything about that, But the uh.
那种可以遮挡光线眼罩
The the eye covers that, uh, to keep light out, those
在飞机上 酒店里等等都很有用
those can be very useful on planes and in hotels and so on.
所以你可以利用光明和黑暗的交替 你可以带着一个灯
So you can use light and dark, and you can travel with your light and.
以及保持黑暗的辅助工具 这样你就可以按照你的家庭时间表
Dark devices so that you can stay on your home schedule and get most of your light
你在家里正常起床的时间  获得大部分光线
when it would be your normal wake up time back home.
如果你知道在家的时候你的昼夜节律死区大概是几点
And what's kind nice is if you know when your circadian dead zone is back home,
对大多数人来说
which is generally, for most people around.
大概是上午十点到下午三点左右 基本上就是体温上升的阶段
Ten a M to about three pm. So basically the rising phase of your temperature.
那个时候你就可以在户外自由活动而不用戴太阳镜
Then you can also feel free to be outside without having to wear sunglasses,
或者你也不用担心暴露在光线下 但如果你知道
or you don't have to worry about light exposure, but if you know.
在你的体温之前的这段时间 也就是前4到6个小时的时间
That window before your temperature, minimum, that four to six hour window,
如果你在新的环境下看到了很多光线
that's the time when if you're viewing a lot of light in your new location.
那么将会大幅调整你的生物钟
You are going to shift your clock pretty considerably,
等你回去的时候 就会很难受
and then you can come back home and have a terrible time.
研究生毕业后 我去了澳大利亚 那是一个很棒的国家 澳洲人都很好
At the end of graduate school, I went to Australia, a remarkable country, incredible people,
还有令人惊叹的野生动物 那是一段美妙的时光 我回来了 那是我人生中第一次
incredible wildlife, an amazing time. I came back, and it was the first time in my life.
我不能规律地睡觉
Where I couldn't sleep on a regular schedule,
我每天白天都要睡上几个小时 那是一场噩梦
I was sleeping in like hour long increments throughout the day. It was a nightmare.
我花了好几周才调整回来
And it took me weeks to get back.
我能做到的就是每24小时在同一时间
On target, and the way I was able to do that was exercising consistently
坚持锻炼
at the same time every twenty four hours.
然后把我的家变成了夜晚的洞穴
Turning my home into essentially a cave at night.
甚至把窗户盖上 然后白天尽可能多地让明亮的光线照进我的眼睛
Even covering up the windows and then getting as much bright light in my eyes
不戴太阳镜 等等
as I possibly could during the day, no sunglasses, etc.
所以这需要一些真正的准备 如果你 如果你的生物钟紊乱了
So it can take some real work, if you, if your clock gets thrown out of whack.
有一种现象叫做重症监护室精神病
There's a phenomenon called ICU psychosis,
在医院的重症监护室里的人
where people that are in the intensive care unit in hospitals actually.
他们会失去理智 变成精神错乱产生幻觉 等等
Lose their mind, they, they become psychotic hallucinations, etcetera.
这是因为昼夜节律的改变 我们知道
And it's because of altered circadian cycles. We know this.
因为他们暴露在这些光和这些声音下
Because they're exposed to these lights and these sounds,
不断有人进来检查他们 最后他们离开医院
people coming in and checking on them, they leave the hospital.
有一个实验  实验中病人们被安排在靠近窗户的地方
Or in some cases, there have been experiments where people are placed near a window
这样他们可以得到一些自然光
where they get some natural light.
假设他们本身没有精神病症状 过一段时间 ICU这些精神病症状就会消失
And these psychotic symptoms disappear, presuming there weren't psychotic symptoms beforehand.
恢复到进医院之前的那样 所以这是非常戏剧化的
Before they entered the hospital, so it's pretty dramatic,
就好像光能把灵魂带到身体里 所以
what light can do to the psyche into the body. So.
让我们来谈谈另一种不同形式的时差反应
Let's talk a little bit about a different form of jet lag that requires
没有乘飞机 火车 汽车 那就是轮班
no planes, no trains, no automobiles, and that's shift work.
轮班工作变得越来越普遍
Shift work is becoming increasingly common.
我们很多人都是颠倒的工作时间表 即使没有这么规定
Many of us are shift working even though we don't have to,
我们有时候也会在半夜工作
we're doing work in the middle of the night.
嗯 你知道的 在不固定的时间在电脑上工作
Um, you know working on computers at odd hours,
白天睡觉
sleeping during the day.
还有很多住在收容所的人们经常会这样
A lot of people who are under, um, shelter and place type stuff.
孩子们的课程表总是变化不定
Um, are doing more of this, kids with the drifting school schedules.
下面是讲轮班工作怎么办  如果轮班工作有一条经验法则的话
Here's a deal with shift work, if there's one rule of thumb for shift work.
如果可以做到 就是
It's that, if at all possible.
你要至少14天保持相同的时间表 包括周末
You want to stay on the same schedule for at least fourteen days, including weekends.
这应该提醒了 那些不轮班工作的人
Now that should immediately cue, the non shift workers.
重要的是周末不要偏离日常轨道太远 即使你不是轮班工作者
To the importance of not getting too far off track on the weekend, even if you're not a shift worker,
周末睡懒觉也不是一个好主意
so sleeping in on Sunday is not a good idea.
轮班工作最重要的一点是要与你的时间表保持一致
The most important thing about shift work is to stay consistent with your schedule.
我之前和萨穆尔·哈塔尔在一个IG上进行了对话
Now I had a conversation on an inscram Live with Samur Hatar.
他是
Who's a.
国家心理健康研究所的神经科学家
Neuroscientists at the National Institutes of Mental Health,
他实际上是那里生物钟学部门的负责人 他也非常强调这一点
he's actually the head of the chronobiology unit there, and he was really emphasizing this point.
因为轮班工作 人们在做所谓的轮班
Because shift work, where people are doing the so called swing shift,
他们在一个时间点的班次上工作四天 在另一个班次上工作四天
where they're working four days on one shift, in four days on another.
这对一些健康参数极为有害
Is extremely detrimental to a number of health parameters.
它会让肾上腺素释放的皮质醇紊乱 还有
It gets the cortisol release from the adrinals really out of whack, and there are these.
皮质醇会在一天中不同的时间上出现峰值 这会扰乱学习
cortisol spikes at various hours of the day, it messes up learning,
会扰乱多巴胺系统 这是一个非常非常严重的问题
it really disrupts the dopamine system, and well being, it is a serious, serious problem.
所以如果你能和你的雇主协商留下的话
Problem so if you can negotiate with your employer to stay on
同一班次  每次两周
the same shift for 2 weeks at a time.
这将是非常有益的
That's going to be immensely beneficial,
会帮助你抵消倒班工作带来的很多负面影响
will help you offset a lot of the negative effects of shift work.
我觉得不可能所有人都能这么去谈
Now, I don't presume that all of you are gonna be able to do that.
有的时候就是无法控制这种事情
Some of you just don't have that level of control.
当然
Of course,
我想承认轮班工作者们对整个社会来说是必不可少的
I want to acknowledge that shift workers are essential.
对吧?
Right?
他们第一时间作出反应  比如消防员
First respond as firefighters,
警察
police officers,
护理人员等等
paramedic et cetera,
还有飞行员,
but also pilots,
晚上看护别人的工作者
people nerd night,
护士,
nurses,
在医院病房工作的人
people working on the hospital wards,
值夜班捡垃圾的人
people picking up trash this night shifts
对我们整个社会正常运作来说
are critical to our functioning as a
至关重要
society,
我相信大家都非常感谢你们
as i'm sure all of you can appreciate.
如果你要轮班
If you're going to work a shift where,
比如说你从下午4点开始到凌晨2点结束
let's say you start at 4:00 pm and you end at 2:00 p 2:00 am excuse me.
然后就会出现一些重要的问题
Then there's some important questions that arise,
例如
for instance.
当班时你会看到光吗?
Should you see light during your shift?
好吧,
Well,
这是个人选择的问题
this is a matter of personal choice,
但理想情况下,
but ideally,
你想看到尽可能多且安全的光
you want to view as much light as possible,
当你需要保持警惕时
and as is safely possible when you need to be alert.
也就是说  从下午4点到凌晨2点看光  然后你会想睡觉
So that would mean from 4:00 pm to 2:00 am then you would want to sleep.
所以用光线来衡量警觉性
So using light as a correlate of alertness,
将黑暗作为困倦的必然结果
and using darkness as a corollary of sleepiness,
这意味着在你想要清醒的时候
what this means is see as much light as you safely can
你要尽可能安全地看到更多的光
during the phase of your day when you want to be awake.
这和我刚才
It's the same thing I said way back the
这一集的开始时候说的一样
beginning of the of this pod cast episode.
尽可能少看光线
See as little light as safely possible,
让你在想睡觉的时候继续工作
and allows you to function during the time when you want to be asleep.
如果你要上完凌晨两点的班
So if you're finishing out that two am shift,
这时你就会想要避免强光照射
that's when you would want to avoid bright light exposure,
你要马上回家
you'd want to go home.
如果可能的话  需要避免看电视
You'd really want to avoid watching tv if possible
这样才能入睡
if you need that in order to fall asleep,
这是一种类似于
that would be a case where something like
调暗屏幕  加上防蓝光
dimming the screen plus blue blockers,
如果这是你的习惯 那就继续
if that's in your practice,
或者你这样做会对睡眠很有帮助  然后就去睡觉
or you wanna do that would be helpful and then going to sleep.
然后你可能会在下午晚些时候或下午早些时候醒来
And then you'll probably wake up late in the afternoon or early afternoon.
有些人可能会说  等等
Some of you might say, wait,
教授
Huberman
我以为你不喜欢防蓝光的东西
I thought you don't like blue blockers.
我从没说过我不喜欢防蓝光眼镜
I never said I don't like blue blockers.
我不喜欢有人在
I don't like people wearing blue blockers at
一天中他们想要保持警觉的时间里戴防蓝光眼镜
the time of day when they want to be alert.
我不喜欢
I don't like.
有人声称防蓝光眼镜可以阻止昼夜节律变化
People asserting that blue blockers can prevent circadian shifts,
因为人们都戴着它们
because people are wearing them.
光的亮度才是最重要的
The brightness of light is what's important.
这和蓝色无关
It's not about the blue.
如果你想戴就戴吧
If you want to wear them,
或者在微弱的灯光下  或者把灯关掉
or just in the lights or turn the lights off,
假设你睡觉是在
let's say you go to sleep at.
你在下午4点到凌晨2点的班之后回家
You get home after this 4:00 pm to 2:00 am shift.
你可能会吃点东西
You maybe eat something,
你去睡觉
you go to sleep.
当你醒来的时候
You wake up and it's,
已经是中午或下午1点
noon or 1:00 pm.
这时候眼睛要看光吗?
Should you get light in your eyes?
你的第一个假设基于我之前所说的
Your first assumption based on what i've said previously,
就是你处于昼夜节律死区  你不能吸收光了
might be that you're in the circadian dead zone that you can't,
因为现在是中午或者下午一点  但你并没有处于昼夜节律死亡区
because it's noon or 1:00 pm but you're not in the circadian dead zone,
因为你是那个凌晨2点睡觉的人
because you're somebody who goes to sleep early in the morning at 2:00 am.
昼夜节律死区并不是一天中的自然时间
It's not like the circadian dead zone is a strict time of day.
它是体内的生物钟
It's an internal biological clock.
你想知道什么?
What do you need to know?
你猜对了
You guessed it.
你需要知道你的最低体温
You need to know your temperature minimum.
你需要知道
You need to know whether or,
你的体温有没有在上升或下降
Your temperature is increasing or decreasing.
现在  我们可以让整个事情变得更简单
Now, we can make this whole thing even simpler and just say,
如果你的体温在下降
if your temperature is decreasing,
避免光
avoid light.
如果你的体温在升高
If your temperature is increasing,
得到光
get light.
就是这么简单
It's that simple.
如果你的体温在下降
If your temperature is decreasing,
避免光
avoid light.
如果你的体温在升高
If your temperature is increasing,
得到光
get light.
从下午4点工作到凌晨2点的轮班工作者有
The shift worker who works from 4:00 pm until 2:00 am has a
非常不同的温度节律
temperature rhythm that's very different
跟我早上5、6点左右醒来相比
than mine where I wake up around 6:00 am
非常的不同
5:00 am
我晚上11点左右睡觉
I go to sleep around 11:00 pm.
我们的生理周期都是24小时
We both have a 24 hour each circadian cycle,
只是我的与日出日落更同步一些
except mine is more aligned to the rise and setting of the sun.
而有的人与日出日落不同步
And there is not.
对吧
Right.
你必须知道你体内的温度节奏
You have to know your internal temperature rhythm and no,
当然也不需要
you don't have to walk around with a
去哪里都带着体温计
thermometer wherever taking your
测体温
temperature.
虽然我觉得挺好的
Although be great,
如果你在外面的时候有一些设备
if some of the devices that are out there,
比如人们会数他们的步数
people are counting their steps.
我觉得很好
Ii think it'd be great.
如果人们有昼夜节律体温测量系统
If people had a circadian body temperature measurement,
我没有参与任何设备的开发
i'm not involved in any of this device development,
但我觉得最后是有那么一个手环 你一点
but i think it's a real call the arms to have a wristband that would
就能测量温度  然后告诉你你的
measure temperature and would tell you your
旅行时的最低温度之类的
temperature minimum when you travel or what not.
我不知道  也许有些设备已经做到了
I don't know,  maybe some of these devices already do that.
但如果还没有  应该有人开发一个
But if they don't they should,
在我看来  我们可以采用这种简单的测量方法
it's absolutely absurd to me why we wouldn't have this simple measurement,
很容易就能得到这种信息
very easy to get that kind of information.
你甚至不需要精确的温度读数
You don't even need the exact temperature read,
你只需要知道高点和低点就可以
all you need to know is the high and low..
假设你是夜间活动的轮班工作者
Let's say you're a shift worker who really is nocturnal,
对你来说情况就是相反的
you're flipped.
你要坚持晚上的作息时间
You wanna stay on that nocturnal schedule.
这对家庭和各种社会生活都是非常困难的
Now that can be very hard on families and social life of all kinds.
但是对于从晚上8点  从日落工作到日出的人
But the person who is working say from8:00 pm like sundown to sunrise.
这就提出了一个问题
This raises a question,
他们应该看日出吗?
should they be looking at the sunrise?
他们应该去看日落吗?
And should they be watching the sunset?
在日落中醒来
Waking up with the sunset,
要和日出一起睡觉吗?
going to sleep with the sunrise?
你觉得  这会不会把他们生物钟搞乱?
You think,  is that like gonna throw them off?
应该是不会的
Probably not.
这个人会反转日出  然后
It's just actually gonna invert what sunrise and
日落就是他们早上醒来的时候
sunset are when they're waking up in the morning.
如果他们看这个
If they look at this,
他们的眼睛会受到阳光的照射
they get some sunlight in their eyes.
它们看着太阳  从那里得到一些明亮的光
They look at the sun and get some bright light from
从公寓或家里的设备或顶灯
devices or overhead lights in their apartment or home.
那么在晚上  他们就会被唤醒
That's gonna tend to wake them up if it's in the evening,
对吧?
right?
我不知道我看得是否说得清楚
So it's I don't know if I see that clearly,
但如果到了晚上
but if in the evening,
太阳下山了  他们看着落日
the sun is setting and they're looking at that setting sun,
那就是那个人的“早晨”
that is the morning son for that person.
这会唤醒他们  去上夜班
It will wake them up for their night shift.
体温上升
Temperature rising,
然后到了早晨
then toward morning,
会发生什么?
what's happening?
他们的轮班就要结束了
They're closing out their work shift.
要回家了
You're going home.
太阳升起来了
The sun is rising.
那要看初升的太阳吗?
Do you look at the rising sun?
根据你现在知道的
Based on what you now know,
你的眼睛对生物钟的衰退很敏感吗?
your eyes are very sensitive to receding of circadian clocks?
那时它将做什么?
What will it do at that time?
如果现在是在上课
If this were a classroom?
我会点名让一个同学回答
I would either cold call on somebody or
或者让那些迫不及待想要说出答案的同学
i'd wait in the audience inevitably
回答
exists.
对他们来说  他们已经起床很久了
Temperature is for that person they've been up for a while.
体温正在下降
Temperature is falling,
不在上升  在你身上可能是升起
not rising from you will be rising.
因为他不是
But because i'm.
白天活动者
Not diurnal.
而我白天醒着  因为那个人的体温下降了
I i'm awake during the day for that person temperatures falling.
因此  当体温下降时  他们可以观察光线
And so they view light while temperature is falling.
那它会产生什么影响？
What's it gonna do?
它会延迟他们的生物钟
It's gonna phase delay them.
这会让他们第二天晚上更难入睡
It's gonna make it harder for them to get to sleep the following night.
你会说人们应该看日落来帮助他们醒来
You would say that person should watch the setting sun to help them wake up,
因为他们要上夜班
because they're gonna work the night shift.
而他们在他们回去睡觉的时候
You probably have sunglasses on or avoid
需要戴着太阳镜
viewing bright light before they go to
或者避免亮光
sleep.
这是一回事
It's the same thing.
他们只是和典型的白天活动者相反过来
They're just on inverted as a typical person who's diurnal.
他们的时间表颠倒了
They're on inverted schedule.
我真的很努力想把这一切说清楚
I'm really trying hard here to make this all really clear.
我发现世界上的两种求知模式
They're kind of two patterns of requests in the world.
我注意到  当我冒险进入
I'm noticing as i've kind of ventured into the
社交媒体和电视直播的时候  我看到两种景象
this landscape of social media and pod cast,
有些人想知道每一个细节  想量化每件事
there are people who want to know every detail want to quantify everything,
因为他们想要完全正确
because they want to get exactly right.
这些是研究生和
These are like the graduate students and
不想犯错的学生
students that don't wanna make a mistake.
引用我的研究生导师的话
And to quote my graduate adviser,
只要错误不是危险的
provided the mistakes are not dangerous,
当然不是致命的
certainly not lethal.
你最好犯点小错误  这样你就能适应了
You you kind of want to make a few little mistakes so that you can adjust.
对吧?
Right?
你不想让自己陷入危险
You don't want to endanger yourself,
但实际上,
but it's actually,
你不可能把事情做得完美
you're not gonna get things perfect.
这就叫做学习  当你意识到
That's called learning is when you realize some this time,
然后我熬夜了  这真的把我搞砸了
and then I stayed up and it really messed me up.
我再也不会那样做了
I'll never do that again.
另一类人似乎想要
The other category of people seem to want.
一种适用于所有人的方法  就像给我这个药片或者给我这个方案
The one size fits all kind of like give me this pill or give me this protocol.
这些东西通常都是有效的
And those things generally work,
但是他们不给人们灵活性
but they don't afford people flexibility.
如果有这样的事情
If there's anything like that,
那就是我一直以来强调的最低温度
it's this temperature minimum thing that i've been
一遍又一遍  一遍又一遍
just hammering on again and again and again today,
因为这是
because it's something that.
你拥有的知识  你真的可以把它作为一个关键的参照点来改变你的生物钟
You own and that you can really use as a key landmark for shifting your clock.
我想还有第三种
I suppose there's a third category,
还有一部分人认为
which is people who are except that
生物系统实际上
biological systems are actually much more
很宽容
forgiving
而不是它们经常被描述的那样
than the way they're sometimes described.
我要利用这次机会
I'm gonna use this as an opportunity,
稍微评论一下
editorialize a little bit.
很多人都在说睡眠债
There's so much made of sleep debt.
睡眠方面  可没有什么国税局
There isn't an irs equivalent for sleep.
他们不会过来找你
They're not gonna come around and try and
然后搜查所有你没睡的觉
collect all the sleep that you didn't get.
没有人真正知道
No one really knows.
你和我以及另一个人
The consequences are going to be for you and
没有得到的那些睡眠  最后会有什么结果
for me and for the next person for the sleep you didn't get,
你无法真正恢复睡眠
you can't really recover the sleep.
你错过了就是错过了
You missed out on.
但你也不想因为死板的遵守时间而变得神经质
But you also don't wanna get neurotic attached to a schedule,
因为有一种叫做睡眠焦虑的东西  然后
because there's a thing called sleep anxiety and then
人们很难入睡和保持睡眠状态
people have trouble falling asleep and staying asleep.
我想花点时间在这上面  然后回到之前的话题
I want to spend a moment on that and go back
我之前已经说过很多次了
to a theme that i've said many times before.
因为这些工具有用
Because these tools work,
我称之为NSDR非睡眠深度休息
what I called nsdr non sleep depressed.
有催眠
This would be hypnosis.
我给过你们链接
I give you the link,
但我再说一遍
but i'll say it again,
reverihealth.com  这是用于临床测试研究的
reverihealth.com  for clinically tested research
免费测试
tested free.
用于治疗焦虑
Hypnosis for anxiety,
还有睡眠的催眠音频
but also for sleep.
这些都是非常好的
Those are very beneficial people,
NADR
nsdr protocols,
非睡眠深度休息  还有比如瑜伽休息术
non sleep depress protocols for things like uganda.
我在第二集的标题中提供了一些链接
I provide some links to those in the caption for episode two.
这些东西昨晚真的很管用
These things really work last night.
我醒来
I woke up through,
我大约十点半上床睡觉
I went to bed about 10:30.
我凌晨三点就醒了
I woke up at 3:00 in the morning.
我知道我没有休息好
I knew I wasn't feeling rested.
我做了一下NSDR
I did ansdr protocol.
然后我又睡着了
I fell back asleep.
然后六点半起床
I woke up at 6:30.
好吧  你得教教你的大脑和你的神经系统
Okay, you need to teach your brain and your nervous
如何关掉你的思绪入睡
system how to turn off your thoughts and go to sleep.
理想情况下是这样  除非真的有需要  不要用药物
Ideally, you do that without medication unless there's a real need.
你可以通过这些行为方法来实现
You do that through these behavioral protocols.
它们起作用  因为它们涉及到用身体来转移思想
They work, because they are involved using the body to shift the mind,
而不是试图在半夜关掉你的思绪
not trying to just turn off your thoughts in the middle of the night.
现在  生活中也有压力很大的时期
Now, there are periods of life where things are stressful
人们会担心
and people are concerned and you will have some struggle,
在保持睡眠状态上挣扎
getting and staying asleep.
这和焦虑有更多的关系
And there's that really has to do more with anxiety.
NSDR方法也可以帮助
Nsdr protocols also can help with,
就像我常说的  在半夜醒来的时候做NSDR
as I always say, do them in the middle of the night.
再继续睡觉
If you wake up and you want to go back to sleep during
白天练习NSDR 让你的神经系统清醒
the middle of the day to teach your nervous system out
冷静下来   如果你觉得睡眠不足
of calm down and do them first thing in the morning.
早上起来就去练习
If you didn't feel you get enough sleep.
换句话说  只要你有机会就去做
In other words, do them whenever you have an opportunity to do them,
因为它们真的可以帮助你学习如何激活副交感神经
because they really can help you learn how to turn on the parasympathetic slash
镇定你的自主神经系统
calming arm of your autonomic nervous system.
据我所知  没有其他方法来教你的系统
There's no other way that i'm aware of to teach your system
放慢脚步  关掉你的思绪  然后继续睡觉
to slow down and turn off your thoughts and go back to sleep.
但这些都是很强大的方法
But these are powerful protocols and.
现在有很多研究
There's a lot of research now.
都能支持这个事实
To support the fact that,
NSDR真的有帮助作用
they can really help.
冥想是另一个例子
Meditation would be another example.
某些类型的冥想包括专注和警觉
Meditation of certain kinds of meditation involve focus an alertness.
这些和另一种冥想稍微有些不同
Those are slightly different than meditations that involve
另一种需要内部状态缺乏专注和注意力
lack of focus and attention to say internal states.
稍作停顿之后我想谈谈孩子和老人
When a pause there and then I wanna talk about kids and the elderly.
换句话说  我们如何控制睡眠
In other words, how do we control sleep
和昼夜节律
and circadian rhythms and wake in babies,
在婴儿 青春期 青少年
adolescence, teens,
和年纪大的人身上
and age strokes,
好吧  在我们讨论孩子的睡眠问题之前
all right before we talk about sleep in kids.
我想讲个小故事
I wanna tell a little story,
这不是玩笑
it's not a joke.
你们很多人应该会因为
Many of you will be relieved that i'm not
我不讲笑话而松一口气吧
gonna try and tell another joke this episode.
也就是光 与
Which is the relationship between light,
皮肤  外表肤色
skin, and pillage, color,
多巴胺
dopamine,
和繁殖的关系
and reproduction,
交配
mating,
许多季节性繁殖的动物
many seasonally breeding animals,
西伯利亚仓鼠  我之前提到过  兔子  狐狸
siberian hamsters, which I mentioned earlier, rabbits.
还有其他动物会改变它们皮毛的颜色
Other animals change their color of their coat.
在冬天  它们的颜色往往较浅
In the winter, they tend to be a lighter color,
有时是纯白色
sometimes pure white,
有时带有光泽感的黑色或棕色
sometimes with flex of black or brown.
在夏天
And in the summer.
外表的颜色变为棕色或红色
Pillage changes to a color of brown or red,
其他一些完全不同  这种颜色的变化是由光控制的
some other vastly different color that shift is controlled by light.
还有褪黑激素
And by melatonin.
这在人类身上有一种有趣的关联
This has an interesting correlate in humans.
人类显然有不同的肤色
Humans obviously have different skin tones just,
从基因上讲  由于一层皮肤的黑色素含量
genetically, because of the amount of melanin in one skin,
这取决于遗传背景
depending on genetic background.
当然  阳光会增加
But of course, sunlight will increase the
皮肤中黑色素的含量  对吧
amount of melanin in the skin, regardless.
晒黑  晒伤  等等
This is suntan, sunburn, et cetera,
美黑  等等
bronzing, whatever.
整个系统都是相连的
The whole system is wired,
这样就改变皮肤颜色  眼睛里的细胞也会改变
so that shifts in skin color and shifts in these cells within the eye.
和褪黑激素实际上是紧密相连的
And melatonin are actually very closely linked.
故事是这样的
So here's the story.
许多年前
Many years ago,
大概是十年前  十五年前
meaning about 10 years ago, 15 years ago.
我想想
Let's see it was.
20年前
20 years ago.
对不起
Forgive me.
一个叫伊基·普罗文西奥的人
A guy named iggy provencio,
他在军警部门经营自己的实验室
who was running his own lab at uniformed armed services.
这是一个标准的生物实验室  发现了
This is a standard biological laboratory discovered that there was
眼睛里有一种视蛋白
and opsin in the eye,
是眼睛种的细胞
in the cells of the eye that connect to
连接着大脑的其他部分  它叫做  黑视蛋白
the rest of the brain called melanopsin.
黑视蛋白  你们很多人应该知道  就是一种视蛋白
Melon option as you many of now is the option.
它就像一种颜料
It's like a pigment.
它可以吸收光线
It absorbs light.
它可以将光转换成电信号
It is the option that converts light into electrical signals,
然后设置生物钟
then set the circadian clock.
他发现了黑视蛋白
Iggy discovered melancholy,
因为它的形态和青蛙皮肤中的一种激素相似
because it was similar in form to what was in frog?
黑素细胞刺激素 实际上是青蛙皮肤中
melanophorins was actually in the skin of frogs
这让那些青蛙从苍白的颜色
that allowed those frogs to go from pale white.
在天黑的时候
When it was dark,
在24小时周期的大部分时间里  青蛙会被这个染成绿色或棕色
for most of the of the 24 hour cycle to pigmented green or brown for a frog.
在我们的眼睛细胞
There's this relationship between the cells
和皮肤的色素细胞  之间有这种关系
in our eye and the pigment cells of our skin.
我们还知道  在日长较长的日子里  有更多的繁殖
We also know that in long days there's more breeding.
这是怎么工作的?
How's that work?
这实际上是由于多巴胺触发睾丸素的增加
That's actually from dopamine triggering increases in testosterone,
主要在男性  以及雌激素
mainly and males and estrogen,
主要在女性
mainly and females other.
当然了男女都有睾丸激素和雌激素
There's testosterone, estrogen in both sexes.
我们有这种途径  一方面 光线会增加黑色素
We have this kind of pathway where it's light increases in melanin,
多巴胺和繁殖
dopamine and reproduction, on the one hand,
而另一方面 缺少光线
and lack of light.
褪黑素会减少皮肤的深色
Melatonin decreases in the darkness of skin,
皮肤上少了黑色素
less melancholy in the skin,
或者对于有皮毛的动物来说
or in the case of an animal with fur,
它们变成白色  减少繁育
white for and no reproduction, on the other hand.
而人类  实际上并没有
And humans, don't actually,
根据日长的长短  很大地改变它们的繁殖模式
shift their breeding patterns tremendously from long days and short days.
尽管有一些数据显示有一些变化
Although there are some data that there's some shifts,
我们也不会从根本上改变我们的肤色
we also don't radically change our skin color,
这取决于我们暴露在阳光下的时间
depending on how much sun light exposure we have.
但简单地说  当白天很长时
But the simple way to put this is when days are long,
有更多的多巴胺
there's a lot more dopamine.
我们感觉很好  还有很多
We feel really good and there's a lot
更多的繁殖和繁殖行为
more breeding and breeding like behavior.
当白天变短
When days are short,
多巴胺减少  繁殖行为减少
there's a lot less dopamine and a lot less breeding behavior.
因为这些途径是高度保守的
Because these pathways are very highly conserved.
有趣的是我们已经进入了现代社会
Now, what's interesting is that as we've moved into a modern society
在我们清醒的日子里
where much of our waking days,
我们大多数时候是在看屏幕  这也没关系
we are looking at screens, which is fine,
因为我们通过这种方式得到了很多光线 虽然 没有阳光那么多
because we're getting a lot of light that way,  not as much as sunlight,
而且在晚上
but also at night,
我们从屏幕上得到了很多光线
we're getting a lot of light from screens.
发生的什么呢  所有这些回路
What's happened is all these pathways,
皮肤中的黑色素  皮肤细胞的新陈代谢  多巴胺
melanin in the skin turnover of skin cells, dopamine.
所有这些东西都被完全打乱了
All of this stuff has become completely disrupted.
这并不是说我们应该回到
Now, that's not to say that we should go back to
那是一个我们不使用人造光源的时代
a time in which we didn't use artificial lights.
但我认为重要的是要意识到
But I think the important thing to realize is
光线充足的感觉很好
that feeling good with getting a lot of light,
多巴胺和皮肤黑色素的关系
the relationship to dopamine and melanin in the skin
阳光照射到皮肤上的感觉也很好
and the feel good feelings of getting light also on our skin
只要你不会被晒伤或者
provided you're not getting burned or you're not getting
过度暴露于紫外线辐射
excessive uv exposure.
这些不仅仅是巧合
Those are not just coincidences.
这些都是固定的
Those are hard wired,
存在于每个人体内的生物机制
biological mechanisms that exist in everybody,
无论你的肤色是深是浅
regardless of how light or dark your skin is to begin with.
还有一点很重要
There's another point which is important,
多巴胺系统
which is that the dopamine system,
也就是这个让人感觉良好的分子
which is this feel good molecule,
和睾丸激素有密切关系
is very closely related to the testosterone
以及雌激素和生殖周期
and estrogen and reproductive cycles.
记住  褪黑激素的抑制会促黄体生成激素释放激素
Remember, melatonin inhibits gonadotropin
抑制释放荷尔蒙  掠夺荷尔蒙
and releasing hormone, looting hormone.
以及这些激素的产生
And the production of these of these hormones
褪黑激素是黑暗的荷尔蒙
and melatonin is it is the hormone of darkness.
我刚给你灌输了很多生物学知识
I just threw a lot of biology at you.
我没说你就像西伯利亚仓鼠那样
And i'm not saying you're like a siberian hamster at least,
至少在我的认知里不是这样的
not in ways that i'm aware of.
我不是说你的外表颜色会改变
I'm not saying that your pillage color is going to change.
事实上  人们头发变白的原因是
Actually, the reason people go gray is because
当你压力很大的时候  你知道吗?
when you're really stressed, did you know this?
当你感到压力很大的时候
Then when you're really stressed,
神经纤维增加了
there's an increase in the nerve fibers that
向头发毛囊释放肾上腺素
release adrenalin to the hair follicle.
这就激活了毛囊中的过氧化基团  导致
And that activates peroxide groups in the hair follicle that cause
让头发变成灰白或白色
the hair to actually go grey or white.
所以压力确实会让你的头发变白
So actually stress does make your hair grey or white.
也会让你衰老
Aging, does it too?
这是一个简短的题外话
That was a brief aside,
但对于那些对这段关系感兴趣的人
but for those of you are interested in the relationship
比如光线和肤色之类的
between light and skin tone and all that kind of stuff,
我想你可能会觉得有趣
I thought you might find it interesting that the
你眼睛里的细胞很像这些
cells in your eye are a lot like these skin cells in
青蛙和其他动物的皮肤细胞  会改变整个的颜色  有时
frogs or in animals that shift their entire color and sometimes
还会变形
metamorphosis.
有些物种会改变形状和生殖器官
There's some species that literally change shape and the reproductive organs.
事实上  如果这还不够奇怪的话
In fact, if that wasn't weird enough,
当我在伯克利读研究生的时候
when I was in graduate school at berkeley,
还有一个研究生在研究一种雌雄同体的鼴鼠
there was another graduate student studying a species of her maphrodic mole.
是的
Right?
那种挖洞的小鼹鼠
There's all things that dig
雌雄同体鼹鼠可以把卵巢 转变为
hermaphrodic mole that would change from having ovaries
睾丸  然后再变回去
to test these and back again,
根据日照长度而变化
depending on day life.
超级酷  超级与众不同
Super cool super different
野生生物机制
wild biological mechanism.
如果你想知道这些动物是如何繁殖的
If you're wondering how those animals reproduce,
它们会调整雄性和雌性的数量
they actually adjust the numbers of males and females,
取决于雄性和雌性的密度  如果
depending on the density of males and females so if,
雄性太多了
there are too many males,
那么一些雄性把他们的睾丸变成卵巢
the may, some of the males turn their test is into overease.
如果雌性太多
And if there too many females,
那么她们把卵巢切换为睾丸
they turn their overreasoned to test these.
这是真的
They actually are true.
雌雄同体的动物  而不是假雌雄同体的动物
Hermaphrotic animals, as opposed to pseudo hermaphrotic animals.
让我们回到正题上来
Let's get back on track.
让我们来谈谈你们大多数人关心的动物
Let's talk about the animal that most of you care about,
也就是人类动物
which is the human animal,
新父母和婴儿
new parents and babies.
正如我之前提到的
As I mentioned earlier,
褪黑激素不是周期性的
melatonin is not cyclic.
在婴儿身上不是循环的
It's not cycling in babies.
更像是一个基本的周期
It's more basic.
它以一个恒定的水平被释放
It's being released at a kind of a constant level.
而且婴儿往往比成年人小
And babies tend to be smaller than adults.
他们是
They are.
这些褪黑激素的浓度非常高
Those concentrations of melatonin are very high.
随着婴儿的成长  单位体积的浓度会下降
As baby grows, those concentrations per unit volume are gonna go down.
婴儿出生时并没有典型的睡眠觉醒周期
Babies are not born with a typical sleep wake cycle and now,
所有的父母都说
all the parents saying,
这些我都知道啊
tell me something I didn't know.
还有就是  我想强调这一点
Also have and I really want to emphasize this.
他们的眼睛也有更灵敏的光学系统
They also have much more sensitive optics of the eye.
很多人问我
A number of people have asked me,
我应该让我的孩子暴露在阳光下吗?
should I be exposing my baby to sunlight?
你不需要躲避阳光
You don't wanna avoid sunlight,
但是他们的眼睛非常敏感
but their eyes are very sensitive.
他们眼睛的光学功能还不太发达
The optics of their eyes aren't quite developed.
以至于当你看到一个新生的婴儿  他们看起来就像
So much so that when you look at a newborn baby and they look a
有一双玻璃般透明的眼睛  有点
little glassy on and they're kind of
透过你甚至小孩子的眼睛
looking through you or even a young child.
很多人认为他们看待你的方式和你看待他们的方式一样
A lot of people think that they're seeing you the way that you're seeing them,
我也不想告诉你
hate to break it to you.
但是只要你稍微搜一下
But if you um ever can just google.
一个月大的小孩的视觉图像
Visual image of a like a.
他们的视力很差  看出来很模糊
1 month old, the optics of their eyes are so poor that you're a cloudy image.
他们没有看到你的你的精细的细节  随着光学功能变得更好
They're not seeing your your fine detail as the optics get better.
然后他们会越来越清楚地看到你
Then they will see you with more and more clarity,
但很多都是眼睛越来越清晰
but a lot of that is clearing of the lens and some
还有新生儿的其他特点
of the other aqueous features of the newborn I
他们看不太清楚
they don't see very well.
他们也没有很好的方式来适应明亮的光线
They also don't have such great ways of adjusting to bright light.
所以婴儿对明亮的光线有一种天生的厌恶
And so babies have a natural aversion to bright light.
所以你一定要避免使用阳光
So you really want to avoid trying to use sunlight a really
使用明亮的光  不能像大人一样对他们
bright light in the same way that you would for an
在婴儿或小孩身上
adult on a young baby or child.
然而  孩子长大后
Children get older, however,
褪黑激素确实开始变得循环的更规律
melatonin does start to become slightly more cyclic slightly, more cycled.
他们的体温节律也开始变得更有规律
And their body temperature rhythms also start to fall into a more regular,
不是24小时的节奏  更多的是
not quite 24 hour rhythm, they're more of,
这些都是昼夜节律
these all trading rhythm.
在某一集里
So in a episode,
我记得是第一期还是第二期
I think it was one or two of the pod cast or
也许我们都谈过这90分钟
maybe both we talked about these 90 minutes.
所谓的昼夜节律  每90分钟就有婴儿出生
So called australian rhythms where every 90 minutes babies
正在经历一个身体的循环
are going through a cycle of body
温度和其他一些荷尔蒙特征
temperature and some other hormonal features.
他们的系统发生了很大的变化
I that so much is changing in their system.
要做什么吗?
What to do?
如果孩子在睡觉
If a child is in sleeping,
你可以分黑暗阶段和光明阶段
you can use phases of darkness and phases of light,
但为了鼓励睡眠  它们必须被缩短
but they're gonna have to be shortened in order to try and encourage sleep.
当你想让孩子睡觉的时候
When you want the child to sleep.
这并不是说他们不会接受成人的教育
It's not that they're just not gonna fall into an adult light
最低体温和最高温度的范围
regime of a temperature, minimum, and a, temperature, maximum.
它们的最低体温波动得更快
Their temperature minimums are fluctuating much more quickly.
个体差异很大
It varies tremendously.
实际上  有一篇很有趣的文献
It actually, so there's an interesting
关于小孩子是否有兄弟姐妹
literature of whether or not they have siblings,
无论他们的双胞胎
whether or not their twins,
不管他们是不是在育婴室
whether or not they're in a nursery environment,
不管他们是不是一个人
whether or not they're alone,
当然了希望宝宝不是一个人
but hopefully maybe not alone.
但你知道我的意思  他们在睡觉
But you know what I mean that they're sleeping
一个人在一个房间  而父母在另一个房间
alone in a room while you're in the other room.
有几件事似乎有帮助
There are a couple things that seem to help,
将整个环境纳入24小时时间表
which is getting the overall environment into a 24 hour schedule.
所以如果房间稍微冷一点
So having the room slightly colder,
很明显  他们想让宝宝舒服舒适
obviously want babies to be nice and cozy,
当你想让他们睡着时  稍微冷一点
slightly colder when you would like them to be asleep.
他们醒着的时候  稍微暖和一点
Slightly warmer for the times you would like them to be awake.
反正宝宝身体都很热
Babies tend to be run pretty hot anyway.
很明显
And obviously,
你要非常小心避免所有极端的温度
you want to be very careful about avoiding all extremes of temperature,
冷或热
cold or or hot.
如果他们经历90分钟的周期
If they're going through these 90 minute cycles,
你也必须调整90分钟的周期
you're going to have to adjust those 90 minute cycles as well.
然后有人说这对我一点帮助都没有
So then people say that's not gonna help me at all,
因为我该如何面对我需要的事实
because how do I deal with the fact that I need
晚上每隔90分钟就要起床吗?
to be up every 90 minutes at night there are?
一些有用的工具
A couple tools that can be helpful.
第一个是尝试
The first one is going to be to try and.
理解平静和深度睡眠之间的关系
Understand the relationship between calm and deep sleep.
所以自主神经系统会让我们陷入恐慌
So the autonomic nervous system had can put us in the states of panic,
这就像跷跷板一样  从自动警觉性一下子倒向恐慌
where that's kind of seesaw of autonomic alertness goes all the way to panic,
也可以是警觉  也可以是警觉和冷静
or it can be alertness or it can be alert and calm.
对吧?
Right?
这里有一个范围
So there's a range there.
这是一个连续体  也可以是你处于深度睡眠状态
It'sa continuum Can also be that the that you're in deep sleep.
跷跷板的另一端在上面
So the other end of the seesaw is way up,
或者你处于轻度睡眠状态
or you're in light sleep,
或者你有点困
or you're kind of sleepy,
或者你只是觉得有点放松
or you're just feeling kind of relaxed.
也许最重要的是
Perhaps the most important thing,
如果你不得不按照宝宝的时间表来
if you're having to map to a baby schedule in order to
确保他们得到改变和护理
make sure that they're getting changes and nursing,
等等  在适当的时候
et cetera at the appropriate times.
如果你睡不着觉  或者你不能持续睡着
To try and maintain as if you can't sleep or you can't sleep continuously,
试图维持你的自主神经系统
to try and maintain a your autonomic nervous system in a place where you're
保持在没有进入理想的睡眠状态下
not going into heightened states of alertness when you would ideally be
不要进入高度警觉状态
sleeping.
我意识到这可以被翻译成
Now, I realized that this could be translated to
当你睡眠不足时  试着保持冷静
try and stay calm while you're sleep deprived,
这对人们来说是很难做到的
which is very hard for people to do.
但这就是非睡眠深度休息方法
But this is where the non sleep deep breath
起作用的地方  可能会非常
protocol surface again and can potentially be very
有利于人们恢复
beneficial for people to be able to recover,
不一定是睡眠
not necessarily sleep,
而是让他们保持一定的自主调节
but for them to maintain a certain amount of autonomic regulation.
这是什么样子的呢?
So what would this look like?
就比如说
This would look like?
宝宝睡着了
The baby goes down,
也许只会持续45分钟
maybe it's only gonna go down for 45 minutes.
如果你能捕捉睡眠
If you can capture sleep,
赶紧睡
capture sleep,
有一些数据显示了所谓的多物理睡眠
there are some data showing what's called polyphysics sleep
如果你能一次睡45分钟或者一次睡45分钟
if you can sleep in 45 minute increments or batches.
即使它在一天中分散  一会醒一会睡着
Even if it spread throughout the day with periods of weight fullness
在这两者之间  虽然听起来很痛苦
in between as miserable as that sound there are, actually,
一些成年人故意雇佣那些没有孩子的人
some adults that have deliberately employed that who don't have children,
来提高自己的工作效率
for sake of work productivity.
它确实会减少你所需的总睡眠时间
It does tend to reduce the total overall amount of sleep that you need.
对大多数人来说这是一个很难维持的时间表  但如果你有孩子
It is a very hard schedule for most people to maintain, but if you have a baby,
估计孩子的事也要安排在你的日程里
the baby maybe throwing into that kind of schedule anyway.
所以如果你能在宝宝睡着的时候
So if you can get 45 minutes sleep,
睡45分钟  很好
while they sleep great,
如果你醒来后  他们再次入睡
if you get another 45 minutes after waking
还有45分钟能睡  很好
and then they go back down to sleep great.
所以尽可能多的睡眠阶段
So as many phases of sleep as you can get,
但如果你睡不着
but if you can't sleep,
非睡眠深度休息方法的数据显示
the data on non sleep deep rest type protocols
至少从神经化学物质上可以看出
does show that at least from a neurochemical
我说一下这意味着什么
level want to be clear what that means.
比如重置基底神经节中的多巴胺水平
Reset of things like dopamine levels in the basal ganglia,
通过正电子发射断层扫描等手段来测量？？？？
measured by things like positron emission tomography et cetera.
这些东西可以很好地自我调整
Those things tend to reset themselves pretty well.
如果你能访问这些深度休息状态
If you can access these deep rest state.
这就意味着不能始终保持警觉
So that means not being alert throughout
在宝宝睡觉的整个过程中
the entire time that the baby is sleeping,
试着契合婴儿的睡眠周期
trying to sort of mirror the baby sleep cycle,
这对某些人来说很残酷
which can be brutal for certain people.
尤其是当你还要准备饭菜  以及做所有这些事情的时候
And especially if you're trying to prepare meals and do all these things.
所以我承认在为人父母方面有很多限制
So I do recognize that there are a lot of constraints on parenting,
不仅仅是在孩子到来的时候制定你的睡眠时间表
not just mapping on your baby sleep schedule as children approach.
1-4岁
Ages 1234.
也就是在这个时候  宝宝眼睛的视力得到了改善
That's when certainly the optics of the eyes of improved,
但你可不想让太亮的光线伤到眼睛
but you don't wanna damage the eyes with very bright light.
他们甚至在10 11岁之前都很敏感
They are much more sensitive even until they're kind of 10,
我们一会儿会谈到视觉和儿童
We'll talk about vision and children in a moment.
但是试着睡得越来越久
But trying to get longer and longer batches of sleep through
希望不是通过给孩子们使用褪黑激素
hopefully not through the use of administrative melatonin to the kids,
因为这是我之前说过的
because that's what I talked about before
为什么这可能是有害的
why that could potentially be detrimental.
如果要用  和你的医生谈谈
Talk about that with your doctor.
但更重要的是想要获得更长的睡眠时间
But more so trying to get longer blocks of sleep,
对应到各个昼夜周期
that map onto these all trading cycles, so if,
所以我们最好每3小时2个90分钟一个周期
we better off to get a 3 hour like 290 minute cycles,
然后连续睡4个小时
then a 4 hour batch of sleep,
因为如果在昼夜节律周期中间醒过来
because waking up in the middle of those all
对父母和孩子来说
trading cycles can just be brutal for parent and.
都有些残忍
And kid.
如果一个人连6-10小时都睡不到
If one can't get a full 6 or ten,
或者有些孩子在快速成长的时候应该睡12个小时
or some kid should even be sleeping 12 hours when they're growing quickly,
试着多睡一会儿
trying to get batches of sleep,
即使它们在24小时的周期内有间隔
even if they're fractured throughout the 24 hour cycle
更符合90分钟的周期
that are matched more to these 90 minutes cycles,
也就是说  一个90分钟的昼夜周期起来  或者两个连续的周期
meaning maybe one australian cycle of 90 minutes or two back to back,
或者三个90分钟起来一下
or three to back.
这都比在昼夜周期中间醒来要好
That's going to be better than waking up in the middle of an australian cycle.
它会对身体其他部分更好
It's just gonna set any number of other things in
比你们所想的那种方法
a better direction than were you to try to say,
比强迫他睡8-10个小时更好
just in force or force a full 8 or 10 hours of sleep?
至少文献上是这么说的
That's at least what the literature shows.
有些孩子整晚睡得很好
Some kids sleep great through the night,
在很小的时候就睡得很好
starting at a very young age, others don't.
我经常听到人们非常难地度过这个时期
I typically hear from people who are struggling tremendously.
他们快崩溃了
They're losing their mind,
可以理解  因为他们没有睡觉
understandably because they're not sleeping,
他们的孩子睡不着
their kids not sleeping.
或者他们的孩子只是睡了很短的一段时间
And or their kid is sleeping for such brief period.
换句话说  试着保持冷静  如果你
So in other words, trying to access deep calm, if you
睡不着  试着进入睡眠  如果你能睡
can't sleep, try and access sleep, if you can sleep,
即使是零散的睡眠
even if it's fractured,
你会问  那些看阳光  运动这些事情呢?
you say,  what about all the sunlight viewing in the exercise stuff?
当你的睡眠真的真的特别零碎的时候
When sleep is really really. Dismantled.
也就是说  它发生在白天或晚上的不同时间
In meaning it's happening in various times of day or night.
如果真是这样
That's especially it.
那么重要的是 最好
At those times, it's gonna be especially important
父母要早晚都能得到阳光
for the parent to get morning and evening sunlight,
因为你的生物钟开始混乱了
because your circadian clock is going into a tailspin.
你需要把它校准到一个位置
It basically wants to anchor to something,
所以你要给它一个校准点  那就是早晚的阳光
so you wanna give it to anchors morning and evening light.
这与我所描述的轮班工作截然不同
This is rather different than what I described for shift work.
这种情况下  日常安排非常混乱  你无法入睡
This is when things are really chaotic and you're just not able to sleep.
类似的情况可能会也会发生在
Similar circumstances can rise.
如果你在照顾一个病得很重的人的时候  你会整晚都不睡
If you're taking care of a very sick, loved one, you're up all night,
尽量保持冷静  只用NSDR方法
try and stay calm using nsdr protocols.
我知道说永远比做简单
I know it's harder to do than to say.
但这些方法不用花钱
But those protocols are there, they're free.
也有研究支持
There's research to support them,
那努力睡个好觉吧
try and get sleep whenever you can,
但也要让早晨和晚上的阳光照进你的眼睛
but also try to get morning sunlight and evening sunlight in your eyes.
如果你没法照到太阳
If you and if you can't get that,
用人造光吧
use artificial light.
那在那之后呢?
What about later life?
小孩长大
Kids.
变成青少年
Now adolescence, teens,
青少年确实有晚起晚睡的倾向
it is true that teens have a tendency to wake up later and go to sleep later.
在某种程度上  只是因为他们睡得更多
In part, just because they're sleeping a lot more,
他们的身体在大量产生GNRH(促黄体生成激素释放激素) 和 LH(促黄体激素)
they're churning out can add a trope in releasing hormone and looting hormone.
他们的整个身体都在变化
Their whole bodies are changing.
我不知道人们是否意识到这一点
I don't know whether or not people realize this,
但我们经历青春期的时候  我们有着最快的成长速度
but the fastest rate of aging that any of us will ever undergo this puberty.
这是最快的成长速度
That is the fastest rate of aging.
所以有大量的生物过程
So there's a huge number of biological
发生在青春期
process that are happening during puberty.
之后可能会用一整集来讲青春期
Probably devote a whole episode to puberty,
这是生命历程中非常迷人的一段时间
this fascinating aspect to the life course.
但这是一个加速成熟的时期
But it is an accelerated period of aging.
这个时候 生物钟机制有时很完整
The circadian clock mechanism sometimes are are are very intact,
有时它们会被拆解  进行一些改变
and sometimes they're a little dismantled and going through some change.
但要优先考虑青少年的睡眠长度
But prioritize the duration of sleep for adolescents and teens.
如果这意味着  如果他们睡到下午两点 然后醒来
Now, if that means they're sleeping until 2:00 pm and then waking
虽然他们整夜不睡会成为问题
up and then they're up all night part can become a problem,
特别是有时候在房间里玩电子设备
especially with all the devices testing
玩电子游戏什么的
in in the rooms are playing video games.
早上和晚上的阳光是最理想的
Morning and evening, sunlight would be ideal,
但有些孩子会在清晨的阳光下睡过去 错过那个阳光
but some kids are just gonna sleep through the morning sunlight.
然而  如果你能测量他们的体温
However, if you were to measure their temperature,
你会发现他们的最低体温
what you would find is that there temperature
会在上午晚些时候来
minimum would come later in the morning.
不一定是早上8点  可能甚至是
It's not going to be8:00 am it's gonna be maybe even
早上10点  如果他们睡到11点或12点
10:00 am if they're sleeping until 11:00 or 12.
如果他们睡到10点  那最低体温也可能是早上8点
Or it might be 8:00 am if they're sleeping until ten.
记住  最低体温是在你起床时间平均前2小时
Remember, temperature minimum is 2 hours before your average waking time.
通常情况
Typically,
让青少年的睡眠总时间最大化
in teens and maximize the total amount of sleep,
尽量在早上或者晚上
try and get regular sunlight either in the morning or in,
经常晒晒太阳
the evening or both.
但如果他们在清晨日出时还在睡觉
But if they're sleeping through the morning sunrise,
这可能不是什么大问题
that's probably not as much of an issue,
如果唤醒他们  剥夺他们的睡眠
waking them up and depriving them.
后果可能更糟
Asleep is probably worse,
因为他们还处于平衡最低体温的时候
because they're teaming their temperature minimum,
实际上还会继续下降
is actually falling later.
它们是昼夜节律死区  等等
They're circadian dead zone as later, et cetera.
我认为对于青少年来说
I think with adolescents and teens,
在他们调整日程的空间方面
it makes sense to kind of give them a little
给他们一点约束
bit more rope in terms of allowing them
是有道理的
some leeway to adjust their own schedule.
一些学校甚至推迟了上课时间
Some schools are even starting classes later on
因为有很好的生物学基础
the basis of some very good biology to support
支持这种在延长的睡眠阶段中调整昼夜节律的现象
this late shifted rhythm in this extended sleep phase.
根据杰米·西泽博士提供的数据
There are data from doctor jamie sizer,
精神病学  行为科学
permanent psychiatry, behavioral sciences,
斯坦福大学的其他研究表明
and others at stanford showing that turning on the
在一组人醒来前  把他们房间里的灯点亮
lights in the room of a team before they wake up,
可以帮助他们获得更多的睡眠
helps them get more sleep.
在接下来的晚上也会让他们提前一点入睡
The subsequent night also tricks them into going to sleep a little bit earlier,
和能让他们多深度睡眠45分钟
but it gives them about 45 minutes more of deep sleep.
数据显示
That's been shown statistically,
总的睡眠时间也会增加
total sleep time increases as well.
如果他们躲在被子下面那就没用了
If they're hiding under the covers that's not gonna work,
但他们不必睁着眼睛
but their eyes don't have to be open.
我知道现在有一些家长  在孩子醒来之前
I know a few parents now that are coming in with a
会用手电筒照一照
flashlight and flashing their kids on over their eyelids.
他们的眼皮
Before they wake up.
希望这有效果
In hopes again this to work,
有人告诉我这有用
someone told me this is working.
没有什么研究表明过这有效
That's not part of a standard study.
但它似乎确实有效  现在你应该知道为什么了
But it does seem to work because now you should know why.
因为如果光线穿过眼睑
Because if lights getting through the eyelids,
比如现在是早上八点  孩子还没醒
it's say 8:00 am and the kid is still
他们在10点醒来
sleep and they're gonna wake up at 10:00,
在他们达到或接近最低体温时给他们光照
you're giving them light just after or around their temperature minimum,
这会让他们想早点睡觉
which is going to make them wanna go to sleep earlier.
对于青少年来说  出于某种原因
In the case of teens, for some reason,
具体原因我们还不知道
we don't quite understand sleep.
会多睡大约45分钟
Longer about 45 minutes,
深度睡眠的时间更长
longer spend more time in deep sleep.
成年人也可以这样做
Adults can do this too,
如果你能说服别人  或者把你的灯设置一下
if you can persuade someone or put your lights
在你醒来前  打开灯
on timer for lights to go on before you wake up.
这能帮你早点醒来
That's really gonna help you wake up earlier.
所以  如果你发现自己在反复地
So, if you're starting to hear some themes
听到这几个方法
are really resounding over and over again,
你应该能确保这些没问题了
that should be reassuring to you right there.
这些是核心机制
These are core mechanisms.
幸运的是
There, fortunately,
这里也没有上千种不同的机制
there aren't 1,000 different mechanisms.
那么  对于老年人来说
Now, in the elderly,
他们倾向于早睡早起
there's a real tendency to wanna go to sleep very early and wake up very early.
老人们应该和他们的医生谈谈
People should talk to their physician.
有证据表明褪黑激素水平和
There is some evidence that melatonin levels and
褪黑激素的分泌模式
patterns of melatonin secretion can become a
在老年人中有些紊乱
little chaotic in elderly folks.
我说的老年是什么意思?
What do I mean by elderly?
不同人的衰老程度不同 对吧
It's gonna differ of aging, differ, right?
有一些人在65岁就开始出现问题
You see some 65 year olds that are struggling
而另一些65岁的人
to move and seeing much older than six,
仍在忙碌  依然精力充沛
some 65 year olds that are still hustling around have tons of energy.
个体差异真的很大  因为一些基因
There's a lot of variation, some of its genetics,
大家的生活方式也是不同的
some of its lifestyle factors that it really varies.
当然了  生活方式因素在衰老速度中扮演着重要角色
Certainly lifestyle factors can play an important role in rates of aging.
我认为对于老年人的睡眠和昼夜节律来说
I think that the the most prominent results from sleep and
最有用的一个研究结果是
circadian rhythms in the elderly are.
老年人需要尽可能多的接受自然光
They need to get as much natural light.
即使是透过窗户
Even if it's through windows,
我直到有些老年人外出不那么容易
I realized that some elderly folks can't get outside as easily.
他们出去也有安全隐患
It's not safe for them to do it.
不能轻易地四处走动
They can't move around as easily.
对于不能出门的人来说  锻炼可以有多种形式
Exercise can come in various forms for people that can't get
不能到户外慢跑或骑自行车  或者晒太阳
outside and get a ton of sunlight by jogging or cycling.
在这种情况下  穿过窗户的光线可以
They're not able to do that light through window.
最好打开窗户
In that case, open window ideally,
但如果由于温度等原因
but for temperature reasons, et cetera,
有时这扇窗必须关闭
sometimes the window has to be closed,
那么靠近窗口  然后不要照人造光
getting people near that window and away
在清晨的时候
from artificial light early in the day.
在夜间睡眠时远离人工灯光
And away from artificial lights cheering.
这对老年人有很大的影响
The night phase can have a tremendous effect in the elderly.
这时褪黑素才是一个可行的选择
That's when melatonin might be a viable option.
但当然应该和医生讨论
And they should be discussed with a physician,
但青春期已经过去了  在大多数情况下
but your way past the puberty time. in most cases.
70多岁、80多岁、90多岁的人就不会
People who are in their 70s and 80s and 90s are not
产生大量GNRH和LH
churning out a lot of gnrh and nausehormone to begin with.
入睡和保持睡眠的困难
That's where struggles with falling asleep and staying asleep.
所有我们之前讲过的参数和事情
All the same parameters and things we described before
仍然适用  比如光线  运动  体温等等
still apply light, exercise, temperature, et cetera.
但这正是褪黑素发挥最大作用的地方
But that's where melatonin might be of greatest benefit.
再说一遍  我不是说一定要用褪黑激素
Again, i'm not pushing melatonin here,
但我认为对于那些年长的人来说
but I think for elderly folks who are
难以入睡并保持睡眠
having trouble falling and staying asleep,
可能褪黑激素值得一试
that might be worthwhile.
我还应该提一下  要有规律的时间表
There are I should just also mention that regular schedule for
那些上了年纪的人自然也一样
folks that are elderly and natural as much natural
光线要尽可能的弱
light as safely possible that those are gonna be
这是调节睡眠和昼夜节律的关键点
the key levers for adjusting sleep and circadian schedules.
我在之前的节目中提到过除  褪黑素外的其他补品
I've mentioned before in previous pod cast other supplements besides melatonin.
有些补品对睡眠很有好处
Some of those supplements are quite good for sleep.
我不是补剂的拥护者
I i'm not a supplement pusher.
但我自己确实有在吃补剂
I am somebody who take supplements.
我相信其中的一些
I believe in them.
有些对我有效  有些则不太有效
Some have worked for me, some have not worked as well.
但我还是相信首先日常行为要到位
But I certainly believe in getting the behaviors right
无论是NSDR  观看自然光  锻炼
Whether or not nsdr protocols viewing natural light, exercise.
热水澡还是冷水澡 还是其他的行为规范
It's hot baths or cold showers or what have you behavioral protocols
这才是首要
First
我之前提到过一些补充剂
There are some supplements that i've mentioned previous pod cast,
然后收到了很多问题
but i've seemed to get a lot of questions about.
所以我想花几分钟时间谈谈这些
So I just wanna take a couple of minutes and just talk about some of the
补充剂可以帮助大脑停止思考
supplements that can be beneficial for helping turn it off thinking,
进入深度睡眠
accessing deeper sleep.
甚至能够压缩你的睡眠
And even being able to compact your sleep
把睡眠时间变成更短的几个小时
schedule into a shorter period of hours,
意思就是  睡得少也能过得很好
meaning getting by well with less sleep.
人们会吃很多安眠药
People take a lot of sleeping pills.
我也不会劝大家不要吃安眠药的
I'm not gonna tell people not to take sleeping pills.
但它们可能会影响习惯的形成
They can be very problematic habit forming.
也有很大的副作用
High side effect.
很多情况下都是这样
Incidents in many cases,
当然有些人可以应付得很好
some people can handle them just fine.
再说一下
Again,
我不是医生
I'm not physician.
什么处方都不开
Don't prescribe anything.
我是教授  我讲解很多原理
Professor, so I profess a lot of things,
其中一些是我的观点
some of which are my opinion.
如果你看科学文献
Although if you look at the scientific literature,
会看到一些令人印象深刻的数据
there's some impressive data around some
你可能会想到  一些非处方药类型的补充剂
non prescription drug type supplements that have fairly
有很高的安全系数
high safety margins that you might consider,
但是你应该在吃这些之前和你的医生谈谈
but you should talk to your doctor always before adding
不管是多吃什么还是少吃什么  好吗?
or taking anything out of your health regimes, right?
你的健康不是我的责任
Your health is not my responsibility.
是你自己的责任  所以你要严格过滤信息
Your responsibilities would be a stringent filter.
沿着这条主线  我们来讲讲最好用的
Along those lines, one of the most powerful and
查询工具  我在这里提到过很多次了
useful tools i've mentioned here on many times,
我打算多说几次的  就是 examine.com
and I planned to mention many more times is the website examined dot com,
我们没有利益关系
which I have no affiliation with.
但它真的是一个很棒的网站  可以把高质量的同行研究
But it's a wonderful site that links you to quality peer
关于补充剂的 全部整理好给你
reviewed studies on relate to just about any supplement,
包括一些安全警告
including some safety warnings,
也会告诉你实验对象是什么  是老鼠  猫  是老人
will also tell you what subjects, whether or not it was rats, cats, elderly,
还是孩子
folks or kids.
一个给定的研究是很重要的
A given study was done on which is important can be kind of hard to
因为一般在打广告的网站上很难看到这种信息 对吧?
pull from sites where people are just advertising supplements, right?
他们通常不会告诉你研究对象是什么
They usually don't tell you what the study was.
哪些老鼠?
Who were these rats?
这些孩子是谁?
Who were these kids?
等等
Et cetera.
至少对我来说  有三种补品
There are three supplements that, at least for me,
对我的睡眠有非常积极的影响
have had a tremendously positive effect on my sleep.
因为有人想知道  所以我说一下
That um, some of you might consider I would say,
但是前提是  我前面说的调整行为习惯  你都做得很好了
if you're doing everything properly behaving,
但还是有问题的时候
you're still having issues,
那么补充剂可能对你有好处
then supplements might be a good thing for you.
或者如果你正在旅行  想要额外的辅助
Or if you are traveling and you want a little bit of extra
帮助你缓冲睡眠痛苦  那这种方法可以
help in buffering your sleep waffle on, this protocols.
有些人就想要  直接问补剂
Some people like to go just to the supplements that like,
我身边有的人就会  “你就跟我说吃什么吧”
what should I take of people in my life that you just tell me what to take.
我更倾向于告诉你  你该做什么 不该做什么
I'm more of years what you might want to do or not do.
然后想一下你想要服用什么  不想要服用什么
And then think about what you might want to take or not take,
但是这都是个人取向
but personal preference and um.
我们在一个自由的国家
It's Free country.
所以你想做什么就做什么把
So you can do what you like
首先  镁
Magnesium.
镁被证明可以增加睡眠深度
Magnesium has been shown to increase the depth of sleep and has been shown to
减少入睡所需的时间
decrease the amount of time that takes to access.
睡着
Sleep, to fall asleep.
有多种镁
Comes in various forms.
我已经讲过镁很多次了
I've talked a bunch of times about magnesium
苏糖酸镁
threonate
是一种适用度更高的一种镁
which seems to be the more viable form of
苏糖酸镁它似乎
magnesium and magnesium threonate.
它似乎优先穿梭进入大脑
It seems is shuttled preferentially to the brain,
而你大脑正是需要它的地方
which is where you want it.
有一些运输递质
There are certain transporters.
它实际上参与了伽马氨基丁酸回路
It's actually engages the GABA pathway which tends
趋向于关闭前脑的某些区域
to turn off certain areas of the forebrain allows
让你能够睡着
you to you know fall asleep.
有一项研究  如果你想探索研究一下
There is a study if you would like to explore it since people
认真考虑补剂的人  可能会想要好好看看这项研究
serious about supplementation might want to explore the study,
是叫
which is ates ,
“不同镁化合物的剂量依赖性吸收概况”
ATES Dose-dependent Absorption Profile Different Magnesium Compounds
在我看来像是一篇高质量的同行评议论文
looks to me like a quality peer reviewed paper.
我可以把链接放在评论区里
I can put the link in the caption.
它探索了各种不同形式的镁
It explores all the different forms of magnesium.
看起来甘酸镁和苏糖酸镁很相似
It does seem like magnesium glycate can be similar to magnesium threonate
取决于它进入哪部分组织
in terms of which tissues it shuttle to magnesium,
苹果酸镁优先进入肌肉上
malate malate is preferentially shuttle to the muscle.
它看起来与大脑相反
It appears as opposed to the brain.
所以这更像是有利于肌肉修复或恢复
So it's gonna be more of a muscle repair type thing or restoring
镁储存在外围  而不是大脑
magnesium stores in the periphery as opposed to the brain.
柠檬酸镁还有一个名字我就不提了
Magnesium citrate has another name that I won't mention.
正因为柠檬酸镁的主要作用
In just because magnesium citrate main effect,
至少对我和我认识的人来说
at least on me, and the people I know,
似乎有泻药的作用
seems to be a laxative effect.
而不是认知作用
As opposed to a cognitive effect.
也有一些证据表明
There's also some evidence that magnesium
苏糖酸镁可以保护神经
threonate  can be narrow, protective.
这些数据来自高质量的实验室
Those data are come from quality labs,
主要是研究啮齿动物  不是研究人类
mostly rodent studies, not human studies.
这还挺有趣的
What's kind of interesting?
再说一次  这些东西的安全系数往往比较高
Again, the safety margins for these things tend to be pretty high.
但如果每次你要尝试新东西的时候
But any time you're gonna take something new,
你应该小心地尝试
you should approach it with caution,
尤其是考虑到服用镁元素可能会有一些
especially since magnesium could be involved
心跳加快之类的副作用
in a heart rhythm and things of that sort.
另一种对我来说比较好用的补剂是 茶氨酸
The other supplement that has been very beneficial for me as theanine.
茶氨酸
THEANINE
茶氨酸会激活
theanine feeling activates
某些伽马氨基丁酸的回路
certain GABA pathways which
可能涉及关闭自顶向下的大脑处理功能
Are involved in turning off top down processing
能够让你更容易入睡
and thinking making it easier to fall asleep
100到300毫克的茶氨酸就能有镇静作用
and theanine hundred milligrams to 300 milligrams has a calming effect.
茶氨酸已经开始出现在很多能量饮料中
theanine is now showing up in a number of different energy,
甚至放入一些咖啡中
drinks and even some coffees as a way to try and
为了让人们喝更多的咖啡
get people in just more of a given type of coffee,
因为这种物质可以消除焦虑和不安
because it the ideas they would take away the jitters and the anxiety,
能让人们喝更多的咖啡
allowing people to drink more coffee.
我说的是  在睡前30到60分钟  服用镁和茶氨酸来平息焦虑
I'm talking about taking magnesium and theanine 30 to 60 minutes before bedtime,
而不是在白天
not during the day to quelling anxiety,
而是在睡前30或60分钟  随餐或不随餐吃
but rather 30 or 60 minutes before bedtime with or without food for me,
对我来说都可以
isn't made any difference.
这两种物质的结合确实有些帮助
And the combination of those two things has really
但茶氨酸对于梦游者可能是个问题
helped theanine for sleepwalkers can be a problem.
它会增加你梦的强度
It does increase the intensity of your dreams,
给你非常生动的梦
gives you very vivid dreams.
对梦游者来说  他们有夜惊现象
So for sleepwalkers are people that get night
我的建议是远离茶氨酸
terror stay away from the theanine is my advice.
镁 和 茶氨酸  可能确实是值得探索的东西
Magnesium feeding might be something to explore
但是 是对于那些没有这些问题的人来说 值得探索
for those of you that don't have those issues.
强调一下“可能”这个词
With the emphasis on might.
然后我讲了一种化合物
Then i've talked about a compound,
上次我讲了芹菜素的机制
and last time I talked about the mechanisms of apigenin ,
是甘菊的提取物 它会有一点
which is derivative of chamomile which acts as a little bit of a
通过激活氯离子通道来催眠的作用
hypnotic by activating chloride channels.
催眠神经元  增加大脑中的gaba
Hyperpolarize neurons increases gaba in the brain.
让你更想睡觉
Busy makes you feel more sleepy.
甘菊  如果你们读过
And chamomile for those of you that read your.
彼得兔闯进麦格雷戈先生的花园 那段
What was the other peter rabbits knocking to mister mcgregor garden?
吃了点甘菊  然后睡着了
chamomile fell asleep.
格雷戈里先生回来了
Mister gregory came back.
是不是有回到小学时代的感觉?
Anyone flashing back to elementary school?
这个故事就在说甘菊有镇定作用
There's a story about camomile having these kind of sedative,
芹菜素  就是从甘菊中高度萃取
like a fax apogen is highly concentrated chamomial.
也有抗雌激素作用
Also, has anti-estrogenic effects if you want to,
如果你想保持你的雌激素水平
keep your estrogen up,
你可能要小心服用芹菜素
you might want to be cautious about epidemic.
这就是像examine.com这样的网站  真正有用的地方
That's where things like dot com become really useful,
因为你可以去看  输入芹菜素  他们会告诉你
because you can go to examine you put in up apigenin and they'll tell
芹菜素所有的功效
you all the things that it does and all the things that does can
有时包括你根本想不到的作用
sometimes include things that you had no
比如这边 它就会减少
idea like reducing conversion of certain
雄激素雌激素的分泌
androgen to estrogen,
你可能想要这种功效
which you might like,
或者你可能想要避免这种作用
or you might want to avoid.
这取决于你  以及你想要的雌激素水平是多少
That's up to you and where you want estrogen levels,
这取决于你的情况 你的生活环境和目标是什么
depending on who you are and what your life circumstances and goals are.
还有其他一些物质可以帮助你入睡
Few other things that can help the transition to sleep.
5-羟基色氨酸  L-色氨酸
5-htp  l-tryptophan
我已经说过为什么我不喜欢这些
I've talked about why i'm not a fan of those for me.
它们会让我陷入沉睡
They tend to throw me into deep sleep and
然后醒来之后  就再也睡不着了
then I wake up and I can't fall back asleep.
所以我不喜欢去干预我的血清素系统
So I don't like to tinker with my serotonin system.
我不喜欢去干预我的多巴胺系统  因为其他一些原因
I don't like to tinker with my dopamine system for entirely other reasons,
不是说这些很危险
but none of which are particularly concerning.
只是我发现如果我增加
It's just that I find that if I increase my
服用多巴胺药丸
dopamine by taking the entire scene in pill form,
第二天我就睡得很沉
then I crash really hard the next day.
或者如果我吃了5-羟基色氨酸  L-色氨酸
Or if I take  5-htp  l-tryptophan
我会很沉地睡过去  然后就醒了
I fall deeply asleep and then I wake up.
我没有提到什么可能的办法让睡眠更紧凑
I didn't mention that there might be ways to make sleep more compact.
所以这实际上是对你的一个请求
And so this is actually a request to you.
我有一个非常有趣的经历
I had, a really interesting experience.
当我还是个博士后的时候
When I was a postdoc,
我第一次去针灸
I went for the first time to an acupuncture.
我知道大家对针灸有不同的想法和看法
I know they're varying um thoughts and opinions out there about acupuncture.
我不能说针灸对我有什么好处
I can't say that i benefit so much from the acupuncture.
现在有了高质量的同行评议研究
There are now quality peer reviewed studies
该研究发表在《Neuron: Cell Press》上
showing it published in neuron cell press journal,
一本很好的期刊  研究表明针灸
excellent journal that acupuncture can
刺激一些抗炎化合物
stimulate some anti inflammatory compounds,
这取决于针灸的部位
depending on where the acupuncture has done.
这是个很好的研究
This is really good.
是去年发布的
Studies came out last year.
我在instagram上说过这个
I talked about this on instagram.
我再说一遍
I talk about it again,
以及还有一些会增加炎症的针灸部位
as well as certain acupuncture sites that increase inflammation.
你可以得到不同类型的效果
you can get different types of effects.
但不能说针灸完美无缺
You can't just say acupuncture is great across the board.
我猜针灸疗法不能够
I'm assuming that the acupuncture is no,
扎某个地方 然后有利于增强信息
which sites are good for increasing information,
哪个地方 是有利于减少信息的
which ones are good for decreasing information.
然而
However,
这针灸师
this acupuncture,
给了我一些红色药丸
I went to gave me these red pills.
他说这些都是有助于睡眠的矿物质  很厉害
He said these are minerals for sleep, and it was remarkable.
我吃了红色的药丸
I took the red pills.
现在这似乎还是个流行语？
Isn't that a thing now?
吃红色药丸
Take the red pill?
我也不知道那是什么意思
I don't know what that means,
我不经常上网冲浪
because i'm not tuned in,
这些红色的药丸看起来像小小的m&s巧克力豆
but these red pills look like a little m and ms.
我听了他的建议吃了几颗
I took a couple of them on his suggestion.
我进入了梦乡 睡了4个小时
I felt deeply asleep in 4 hours later,
醒来时感觉休息得很好
woke up feeling incredibly rested,
这是我一生中从未有过的休息
more rested than I had ever felt in my entire life.
我从来没有一下子睡超过4个小时
And I never required more than 4 hours sleep.
不幸的是
Unfortunately.
针灸师搬走了
Acupuncture has moved away.
我一直不知道红色药丸里面装的是什么
I never figured out what was in those.
没机会做质谱分析
Red pills didn't get a chance to do the mass spectroscopy.
但我依然很想知道  他说那是矿物质
I still wonder he said they were minerals.
如果有人知道这些红色药丸是什么  以及这种化合物是什么
Somebody out there knows what these red pills are and what this compound is.
这些药丸太厉害了
And it was incredible,
请告诉我  我很想知道那是什么
and I would love to know what those are so if.
但请不要随意服用这种红色药丸
Please don't go taking red pills at random to try
去创造这种非实验性的思维体验
and recreate this non experiment experience of mind,
但如果你知道那是什么  或者你是针灸师  请联系我
but please do contact me if you find out or if you're an acupuncturist,
告诉我这些神秘的红色药丸是什么
what these mysterious red pills were.
真的很神奇
They were pretty awesome.
再说一下  我给了你大量的信息
Once again, i've thrown a tremendous amount of information at you.
我希望你能测量出
I hope you will figure out your
最低体温的时间 并开始应用它
temperature minimum and start working with that to
进入你想要的睡眠  或者等待周期的到来
access the sleep and wait for cycles that you want to access.
我希望你们去试一试NSDR  你们可能会想探索补剂
I hope that you'll explore nsdr you might want to explore supplementation.
如果这是你想要做的  你现在就可以开始尝试
If that's your thing, you have now access to a
很多睡眠和觉醒的机制
lot of mechanism about sleep and wakefulness.
但是为了和今天节目的主题保持一致  我们
But in keeping with the theme of this pod cast where we
在这一个月甚至更长的时间里
stay on topic for an entire month or even slightly more,
还会讲睡眠与觉醒的话题  还没有结束
we are not done with sleep and wait fullness.
我知道这与一般的播客很不一样
I know this is very different than the typical pod cast format where 1 week it's
一般播客可能会说 如何在下周变得非凡
how to become super human in the next week.
而是如何发展成长的思维模式
It's how to develop growth.
不同的播客中都会有出现
Mindset is kind of all over the place with episode episode.
但我们会跟着进度  因为我真的相信
We are staying on track because I really believe that
随着我们深入研究这些机制
as we drill deeper and deeper into these mechanisms,
你一遍又一遍地听到一些相同的主题
you start hearing some of the same themes again and again,
你将会开始形成一种直觉和理解
you're going to start to develop an intuition and understanding of
了解这些系统如何在你特定的生活环境中运作
how these systems work in you in your particular life circumstances.
我的最终目标是  你们不需要我再讲了
And my goal is really to eventually become obsolete.
我的研究生导师以前就把这叫做“公交撞车”原则
It's what my graduate adviser used to call the hit by a bus Principle.
有点黑色幽默的感觉
Should somewhat morbid sense of humor and used to be if
他说 “我明天被车撞了 你怎么办?”
I get hit by a bus tomorrow, what are you going to do?
之后就没有我
Without me
在你边上唠叨了
Blabbing at you here.
我当然不想被车撞
So I don't wanna get hit by a bus.
如果非要说的话  我还打算活很久
I plan on living a very long time if I have anything to say about it.
但如果  万一我明天在哪里被车撞了
But where i to get hit by a bus tomorrow.
在睡眠和觉醒方面你该怎么做?
What would you do for your sleep and wait fulness?
对吧?
Right?
你可以在youtube上发表评论
You could put a comment on youtube,
我也希望你会这么做
which I hope you'll do.
但如果我被车撞死了
But if I were hit by a bus and killed,
那我就无法回答你的问题了
then you I wouldn't be able to answer your question.
找到你的最低温度
Know your temperature minimum,
要明白在一天的早些时候  阳光是很有价值的
understand light in the early part of the day is valuable.
当你想清醒的时候  接受光照
Light when you wanna be awake, provide.
只要不是特别强烈  不会对你造成伤害
It's not so bright, it's damaging.
它对你很好  不管它是来自
It's great for you whether or not it comes from
电子屏还是太阳  但阳光更好
screens or sunlight, but sunlight is better.
在体温达到最低体温前的4 - 6小时内避免光照
Avoid light in the 4 to 6 hours before your temperature minimum, or else,
除非你要旅行  否则你的生物钟会延迟的
you're gonna delay your clock unless you're traveling.
这就是你需要做的
And that's what you want to do.
使用体温  提高体温  来提前你的生物钟
Use temperature, increase temperature, to shift your clock,
降低体温  来延迟你的生物钟
decrease temperature to delay your clock.
画出你的体温变化  并理解它
Map out your temperature and understand it.
你不需要一天到晚每个温度都去记录  但得知道你的最低体温
You don't have to know degree by degree across the day, know your minimum,
知道你24小时内的最高体温
know your maximum temperature in your 24 hour cycle.
你会从中感受到强大的力量
And you feel great power through that.
因为你也会了解这些昼夜周期
Because then you'll know also about these all trading cycles,
在这90分钟的周期内  你可以集中精力工作
these 90 minute cycles within which you can do focused work,
不要期待注意力会很快就到来
don't expect the focus to come early.
注意力通常在90分钟中间集中出现  然后逐渐减少
Expected books come in the middle and then kind of taper off.
我谈到了一些关于孩子的问题
Talked a little bit about kids,
讲了关于老人的  关于育儿的事
a little bit about elderly, about parenting.
我们将会继续
We are going to continue.
还会有更多
There's going to be more.
但现在轮班工作者  旅行者
But now shift workers, travelers,
在家里有飞行时差的人
people that are jet lacking themselves at home.
你应该知道怎么调整了
you know how levers in place?
信息可以是强有力的
Information can be powerful,
但你必须以某种方式来实现它
but you have to implement it in ways, obviously,
用安全且合理的方法
safe ways and reasonable ways.
调用你有的知识
But implementing this knowledge in the ways that you
用你信任或安全合理的方法  对你来
trust or safe and reasonable for you is going to be
你可以给自己形成一个实验室  不断尝试
the way that you can develop a bit of a laboratory about yourself.
我讨厌生物黑客这个词
I loathe the term bio hacking.
对不起  生物黑客
Sorry, bio hackers.
我不相信入侵任何系统
I don't believe in hacking anything,
我相信理解机制和应用
I believe in understanding mechanism and applying the
有大量高质量的同行评审数据支持的
principles of mechanism for which there are large bodies
机制的原理
of quality peer reviewed data.
某些生物学原理的重心
And even a whole center of mass around certain biological principles,
比如光的影响和最低体温会让你
like the effects of light and temperature minimum that will allow
按照你想要的方式改变你的生理机制
you to shift your biology in the ways that you want to go.
这会让你的心理朝着你想要的方向转变
That will allow you to shift your psychology in the ways you want to go.
下一集
Next pod cast episode,
我们会讲到更多的东西
we are going to talk more about a few things.
首先  我会回答你们其他更多的问题
First of all, we're gonna answer more of your questions,
因为在答疑时间里
because during office hours,
我没有回答上一期的所有问题
I didn't get to all your questions from the previous episode.
我读了所有的评论  我们重点关注在了
So I do read the comments and we're paying attention and,
找出最常见的问题上
figuring out the most common questions.
我们要讨论一些有人问我的更难的话题
We are gonna get to some of the harder topics someone came at me.
真的很有趣  因为总会有人问更大的问题
It's always fun when somebody does this.
他们说  我讲的都是低级别的问题
They say these are just the kind of basil low level questions.
那么更大的问题呢?
What about the big stuff?
比如做梦和清醒的做梦意识呢?
What about dreaming and lucid dreaming consciousness?
我会讲到这些的  而且我已经计划好了
I'll talk about that stuff and i'm planning to do that.
其中一些会在下一期  甚至之后都会提到
Some of which in the next episode, in the following episode, maybe even.
我想给你们一些数据
But I wanna give you data.
我想给你们一些有数据支持的东西
I want to give you things that are supported by data.
我会尽量减少推测
I will try to speculate as little as possible,
因为这是一档基于科学
because this is a pod cast about science
以及基于科学的日常生活工具的节目
and science based tools for everyday life.
这不是让我
This is not about me.
发表推测的地方
Speculating.
很多人会推测睡眠
Many people are speculated about the role of sleep,
做梦和意识 所扮演的角色
dreaming and consciousness,
确实是个吸引人的话题,
fascinating topics,
坦率地说  这是一个相当循环的论点
and a rather circular argument, frankly.
这种情况已经持续了几个世纪
It's been going on for centuries.
总有一天我们会研究出来
Someday we'll get there right now.
但现在  我们专注于这些深层的生物机制
We're concentrating on these deep biological mechanisms that make
让你做好你自己  让你有好的或坏的感觉
you who you are and allow you to feel certain ways good or bad,
让你的身体在某些方面发挥出好的
allow you to function physically in certain ways good
或者是坏的作用  给你更多的控制感
or bad and give you more of a sense of control.
这就是我的目标
That's my goal here.
许多人都很有礼貌地问他们如何才能帮助支持播客
Many people have quite graciously asked how they can help support the pod cast.
首先  谢谢你们
First of all, thank you.
我们很感谢大家这么问
We appreciate the question.
大家可以通过在youtube上订阅来支持我们播客
You can support the pod cast by subscribing to the pod cast on youtube,
还可以订阅Apple或Spotify上的节目
as well as subscribing on apple or spot if i.
你也可以在youtube和Apple上给我们留下评论和反馈
You can also leave us comments and feedback on youtube and at apple.
真的对我们有很大的帮助
That really helps.
希望反馈都是积极的
We would hope the feedback would be positive.
除了给我们反馈  请多问问题
But nonetheless leave us feedback, ask questions.
我们将用这些问题来作为之后节目的基础  来创造之后的内容
We will use those questions to create future content for the pod cast.
还有  如果你可以向朋友或家人
As well if you can recommend the pod cast to friends and family
以及其他 你认为可能会对他们有用的人 推荐这个播客
and other people that you think might find the information of use.
那真的很感谢
That's terrific.
可以去看看我们一开始提到的赞助商
And check out our sponsors that we mentioned at the beginning.
这是一个很好的支持我们的方式
That's a really great way to help support us.
以及支持我们为你带来这些信息的能力
And our ability to bring you this information.
根据这些原则
Along those lines,
很多人问过我关于补剂和补剂品牌的问题
a lot of people have asked me about supplements and supplement companies.
直到现在
Up until now,
我一直不愿意推荐特定的补剂品牌
i've been the reluctant to recommend specific supplement brands.
补剂行业有点像西部大开发
The supplement industry is kind of a wild west of different brands,
质量和品质把控都层次不齐
different levels of quality and stringency.
非常复杂
It can be very complicated.
而且瓶子上的信息和实际含量总是不一致
And what's on the bottle is not always what you're getting.
你所获得的补剂质量因公司而异
The quality of what you're getting is varies from company
甚至从一批到另一批的质量都不一致
company and even from substance to substance batch to batch.
我很高兴地宣布我和THORNE合作
I'm pleased to say that i'm partnering with thorne
THORNE是一家与梅奥诊所合作的补品公司
THORNE is a supplement company that works with the mayo clinic,
几乎所有主要的运动队组织都会用
with pretty much all the major sports team organizations.
我知道他们用最高标准
And that I know to have the highest levels
严格把关了品质
of stringency in terms of what's in the
药品的含量和瓶子上写的相符
bottle matches what's listed on the bottle
他们所生产的补剂
in terms of the quality of what they put in
都是这样
those supplements.
我之前提到过  补剂并不适合所有人
While I mentioned earlier that supplements aren't for everybody.
如果你有兴趣尝试这些补剂
If you're interested in trying some of these supplements,
你可以去看看THORNE
you might want to check out thorn.
如果你想这么做  你可以去thorne.com/u/huberman
If you want to do that, you can go to thorne.com/u/huberman
thorne.com/u/huberman
So it's thorne.com/u/huberman.
如果你这么做  他们会给你在那买的补品
If you do that, they'll give you 20% off any of the
给你打八折
supplements that you happen to purchase from thorn.
非常感谢你的时间和关注
Thanks so much for your time and attention.
我真的很感激
I really appreciate it.
我们下期节目再见
See you next time on the human lab pod cast.
一如既往  感谢你对科学的兴趣
As always, thanks for the interesting science.