Author: Faye
This transcript is derived from the YouTube transcript https://www.youtube.com/c/AndrewHubermanLab

欢迎来到HubermanLab播客
Welcome to the HubermanLab Podcast,
在这里  我们讨论日常生活中的科学和基于科学的工具
we discuss science and science space tools for everyday life.
我叫安德鲁·休伯曼
My name is Andrew Huberman 
是斯坦福医学院神经生物学和眼科学的教授
and I'm a professor of neurobiology and ophthalmology at Stanford School of Medicine.
本播客与我在斯坦福大学的教学和研究角色是分开的
This podcast is separate from my teaching and research roles at Stanford.
然而
It is,
它是
however,
我的部分愿望和努力
part of my desire and effort 
为的是为你们带来零成本的消费者信息  关于科学和科学相关工具
to bring you zero cost of consumer information about science and science related tools.
为了与这个主题保持一致
In keeping with that theme,
我要感谢今天播客的赞助商
I'd like to thank the sponsors of today's podcast.
我们的第一位赞助商是 InsideTracker
Our first sponsor is inside tracker Inside Tracker,
InsideTracker分析血液和DNA的数据 帮助你更好地了解你的身体 健康和健康需求
analyzes data from your Blood and DNA to help you better understand your body and health and health needs.
我已经验血很多年了 因为我发现很多对我们的健康和幸福很重要的东西
I've been getting my blood tested for many years now because it just turns out that many of the things that are 
只能通过血液测试或DNA测试检测到 InsideTracker
important to our health and wellbeing can only be detected in the blood test or a DNA test inside tracker 
让这变得很容易
makes that really easy.
如果你愿意 他们可以到你家里拿样品
They can come to your house to take those samples if you like,
或者你也可以去附近的诊所
or you can go to a nearby clinic as well.
大多数血液测试和DNA测试的主要问题是
The major problem with most blood tests and DNA tests is that 
很难理解你所获得的信息
it's very hard to make sense of the information you get.
你会得到很多关于代谢因素和不同因素的数据
you get a lot of numbers related to metabolic factors and different factors,

内部追踪器 可以很容易地解读你血液和DNA中的这些水平
Inside tracker makes it very easy to decipher what those levels in your blood and DNA mean 
以及如何应对它们
and what to do about them.
他们有一个很容易使用的仪表盘 如果你去它
They have a very easy to use dashboard that if you go to it,
它可以告知人们如何选择生活方式 比如增加或减少某些形式的锻炼或营养
it can inform about lifestyle choices such as adding or subtracting certain forms of exercise or nutrition.
其他与补充有关的事项
Other things relate a supplementation.
这是一个功能强大且易于使用的程序
It's a really powerful and easy to use program.
如果你想试试
If you want to try.
Insidetracker
Inside tracker,
你可以去insidetracker.com/huberman
you can go to inside tracker dotcom,
并把Hubermen填在结账的优惠码里
slash Hubert Gun and Put Huber men at check out 
在他们的任何项目中获得25%的折扣
to get twenty five per cent off any of their programs that's inside tracker dotcom,
结帐时输入Huberman
Huberman and put Huberman checkout.
今天播客的第二个赞助商是athleticgreens
The second sponsor of today's podcast is athletic greens.
athleticgreens是一种维生素矿物质益生菌饮料
Athletic greens is an all in one vitamin mineral probiotic drink.
我从2012年开始使用athleticgreens
I've been using athletic green since two thousand and twelve,
我很高兴他们赞助了我的播客 我开始使用athleticgreens
and so I'm delighted that their sponsoring the podcast I started using athletic greens
 我现在仍然使用athleticgreens 因为我发现要想知道我需要服用哪些
and I still use athletic greens because I find it very complicated and almost dizzying to figure out 
维生素和矿物质来满足我的营养基础非常复杂
which vitamins and minerals I need to take in order to just cover my nutritional basis.
服用athleticgreens就很容易了
Taking athleticgreens makes that very easy.
味道也很好 用水和一点柠檬汁做的
It also tastes very good and makes mine with water and a little bit of lemon juice,
我真的很喜欢
and I really like it,
所以我一天喝一两次
so I drink at once or twice a day.
athleticgreens中的益生菌对我来说也很重要
The probiotics that are in athletic greens are also important to me,
因为现在有很多数据表明 肠道微生物群
because there are a lot of data now showing that the gut microbiome,
它是由益生菌支持的
which is supported by probiotics,
对内脏很重要
is important for things like the gut,
大脑
brain access,
心情
mood,
内分泌因素
endocrine factors,
新陈代谢
metabolism,
很多生物功能 所以通过athleticgreens
many many biological functions and so by taking athletic greens,
我在益生菌中获得了维生素和矿物质 易于食用 口感极佳
I get the vitamins and minerals in the probiotics all in one easy to consume great tasting.
如果你想试试
If you want to try out,
athleticgreens
athleticgreens
你可以去athleticgreens.com/huberman
you can go to athleticgreens.com/huberman
如果你去看了
and if you do that,
你还能得到一年的液体维生素D3K2
you also get one year supply of liquid vitamin D three K2
现在也有很多数据
There are a lot of data now as well,
表明维生素D3对情绪的免疫功能很重要
showing that vitamin D three is important for immune function for mood,
内分泌因素
endocrine factors,
以及大脑和身体的其他系统
as well as other systems in the brain and body.
这是athleticgreens.com/huberman
That's athleticgreens.com/huberman
我还应该提一下 如果你这么做
and I should also mention if you do that,
你不仅能获得一年的维生素D3k2
you won't just get the vitamin D three K two years supply.
你还会得到五套免费的athleticgreens旅行装
You also get five free travel packs of athletic greens,
可以在路途中混合粉末
mixing up powders when one is on the road,
要么在车里 要么在酒店里 要么在飞机上
either in the car were in a hotel or on the plane,

可能会有点乱
Can be kind of messy.
这些小旅行包让旅行变得又干净又方便
These little travel packs make it really clean and easy.
再一次
So once again,
如果你去athleticgreens.com/huberman
if you go to athleticgreens.com/huberman
你会得到一份特殊的athleticgreens
you'll get a special offer of your athletic greens,
但你也能获得全年所需的维生素D3k2
but you also get the year supply of vitamin D three K too,
还有五个免费旅行包
and the five free travel packs.
今天播客的第三位赞助商madefor是一家行为科学公司
The third sponsor of today's podcast is made for made for is a behavioral science company that 
它通过一系列简单的步骤和一个月的计划 让实现积极的改变和成长的心态变得容易
makes attaining positive changes and growth mindset easy through a simple set of steps and a monthly program.
该公司由前海豹突击队队员帕特里克·多塞特 和Tom's 的创始人布莱克·麦考斯基创立
The company was founded by former Navy Seal Patrick Dossett and Tom's founder Blake Mycoskie.
我是他们科学顾问委员会的负责人
I'm the head of their scientific advisory board.
咨询委员会的其他成员包括
and the other members of the advisory board include people like the Director of the Quantum Biology Unit,
国家心理健康研究所量子生物学部门的主任
the National Institutes of Mental Health,
哈佛医学院和许多其他认真研究的人
Numbers of Harvard Medical School and many other people who are serious about taking sides 
并开发可以应用于积极习惯和成长心态的方法
and developing protocols that can be applied toward positive habits and growth mindset.
如果你想看看madefor 你可以去getmadefor.com
If you want to check out made for you can go to get made for dot com,
如果你购买任何一种产品并输入Huberman结账
and if you purchase in either products and put human at check out,
他们会给你打八折
you'll get twenty percent off their program.
除此之外
In addition to that,
我们每月都会给会员组织一场zoom会议
we do a monthly zoom call where the members are made for good on it.
帕特里克和我  有时还有布莱克
And Patrick and myself sometimes Blake as well,
讨论了madefor的项目和个人目标
discussed the maid for program and the personal goals and things 
以及人们试图通过项目实现的目标
that people are trying to achieve with the program.
这是一个Zoom上的来回对话
So it's a dialogue back and forth on Zoom.
每月一次会议
Call once a month once again,
getmadefor.com
that's get made for dotcom,
输入Huberman
putting Huberman
结账的时候 可以享受八折优惠
check out and you'll be able to get the twenty percent off.
也可以参与
As well as access.
每月的zoom会议
The monthly zoom calls with us.
我们来谈谈神经可塑性
Let's talk about neural plasticity.
更具体地说
More specifically,
我们来谈谈如何优化大脑的神经可塑性
let's talk about how we can optimize our brain's neural plasticity.
是我们神经系统的这种不可思议的特性 让它能够自我改变
Is this incredible feature of our nervous system that allows it to change itself,
甚至是我们有意识地决定要不要变
even in ways that we consciously decide.
这是一种不可思议的财产
That's an incredible property are liver,
你的肝脏可不能决定改变自己
can't decide to just change itself.
脾不能仅仅通过有意识的思考  或通过别人的反馈来
are spleen can't decide to just change itself through conscious thought or through feedback 
改变自己
from another person.
当然  这些组织中的细胞确实可以改变
The cells in those tissues can make changes sure,
但我们的神经系统正是拥有一种不可思议的能力 能够以自己想要的方式引导自己的改变
but it's our nervous system that harbors this incredible ability to direct its own changes in ways that we believe,
让我们自己变得更好
where we are told will serve us better.

今天是非常特别的一集
today is a really special episode,
因为虽然我们依然是讨论科学
because while we are going to talk about science,
和往常一样
and as always,
我们将深入研究机制
we will delve into mechanism.
但今天的节目是为了回答大家最常见的
Today's episode is really geared toward answering your most common questions 
关于如何利用神经可塑性的问题
about how to leverage neural plasticity.
前几集讲的是注意力以及如何为了可塑性而集中注意
The previous episodes were about focus and how to achieve focus for sake of plasticity,
和上一集一样
as well as the last episode,
这是一些用运动有关的方法 去形成可塑性
which is what are some of the portals into plasticity that relate to movement.
行为如何激活可塑性  以及如何激活行为本身的可塑性呢？
how behavior can activate plasticity as well as how to activate plasticity for behavior itself?
如何更好地学习某些动作？
How to get better at learning certain movements?
今天的播客主要是回答大家最常见的问题
Today's podcast is really directed toward answering your most common questions 
以及更大的一个问题  如何优化大脑
and the bigger theme of How does one go about optimizing their brain,
或者甚至试图去优化大脑
or even think about optimizing the brain?
这是什么东西？
What is this thing that we're calling,
优化大脑
optimising the brain?
在这一过程中
In doing so,
我还将分享一些我的典型日常习惯和工具
I'm also going to share some of my typical routines and tools.
不是说  我分享这些 因为我它们是唯一可用的
I don't share these because I think that they are the only ones that are available out there.
这些方法当然不是唯一的
Certainly they're not,
我分享这些  也不是因为我自己在做  所以我要每个人都去做
nor do I share them because I think that everyone should do them just because I do them.
当然不是
Certainly not.
我分享这些是因为  你们很多人都问过我具体做什么
I share them because many of you have asked for very concrete examples of what I do,
以及什么时候做
and when,
所以我将和你们分享这些
and so I'll share those with you,
你可以决定这些方案是否适合你
And you can decide whether or not those protocols are for you or not.
每个人都是不同的
Everybody is different,
但是在神经系统和身体的层面上  我们的组合构成 有一些共同的特征
but there are some common features of how we are all put together at the level of the nervous system 
这些共同的特征指引着我们去做一些特定的练习 特定的习惯
and body that direct us toward particular practices particular routines 
这些练习对于神经可塑性来说是非常强大的
that can be especially powerful for neural plasticity.
所以我想通过强调一些非常重要的东西来开始今天的讨论
So I want to open up the discussion to day by emphasizing something that's fundamentally important,
可塑性不是我们的目标
which is that plasticity is not the goal.
可塑性从来不是目标
Plasticity is never the goal.
可塑性只是我们神经系统改变的一种状态或能力
Plasticity is simply a state or a capacity for our nervous system to change.
我每次听到一些话就不知道说什么
And so nothing makes me more frustrated.
比如说
Perhaps then,
当我听到
when I hear,
哦
Oh,
这药丸  这药剂
you know this pill this potion.
这种练习
This practice.
它可以赋予你可塑性
It gives you plasticity.
可塑性就是改变
Plasticity is just change.
不是的  真正的问题是
The real question is,
你想要改变什么？
what are you trying to change?
特别是
and specifically,
你想要达到的最终目标是什么？具体的目标  可能是非常具体的目标
what end goal are you trying to achieve Specific and goals might be extremely specific,
比如你想学习一种特定的语言 或者你想学习一种新的运动技能
like you want to learn how to speak a particular language or you want to learn a new motor skill,
或者你想要非常擅长微积分
or you want to get very good at calculus,
或者你想忘记与某个特定的人或经历有关的坏情绪
or you'd like to forget the bad emotions related to a particular human being or experience,
或者它可以是更普遍的 比如你想要更有创造力
or it can be more general like you'd like to be more creative 
我们今天的确会讨论创造性
and we'll actually talk about creative to creativity to day 
或者你想要获得更多的注意力或者你想要更少的压力
or you would like to achieve more focus or you'd like to be less stressed.
所以理解可塑性非常重要   实现可塑性是我们所说的
So it's very important that you understand that plasticity and achieving plasticity is the first step in what we call 
优化大脑的第一步
optimizing your brain.
你不希望你的大脑一直都是可塑的
You don't want your brain to be plastic all the time.
事实上
In fact,
有一个主要的问题
one of the major questions,
神经科学的一个主要未解之谜是
one of the major unsolved mysteries of neuroscience is how each 
我们每个人每天醒来时 是如何知道自己是谁的
and every one of us wakes up every day and knows who we are.
为什么会这样呢
Why should that be?
嗯
Well?
大脑是可塑的
The brain is plastic.
它在整个生命周期中都有改变的能力
it has a capacity to change throughout the lifespan,
但它在每天晚上也没有那么可塑
but it's not so plastic that every night,
当我们睡觉或醒来时 这些连接会重新配置
when we go to sleep or in our waking that the connections get reconfigured.
以至于我们忘记了自己是谁
so much so that we forget who we are,
忘了怎么走路 怎么吃饭
how to walk or how to eat.
如果我们没有如此强大的可塑性或持续的可塑性 这是一件好事
It's a good thing that we don't have such robust plasticity or ongoing plasticity that 
这样我们每天都可以重组自己
we have to restructure ourselves each day.
我们生命延续的一部分
It's part of what gives our life continuity.
记住
So remember,
可塑性不是 也永远不会是目标
Plasticity is not and is never the goal.
我们的目标是弄清楚如何获得可塑性
The goal is to figure out how to access plasticity and then
 然后将这种可塑性导向你想要实现的特定目标或改变
to direct that plasticity toward particular goals or changes that you would like to achieve.
我应该提一下
and I should just mention,
生活中没有任何规定  要求你必须利用神经可塑性这一不可思议的东西
There's no rule that in life you have to leverage this incredible thing called Neural plasticity.
没人说你必须这么做
No one said you had to do that.
本节课的播客是专门为那些
This podcast in this episode is particularly for people 
对生活的某一方面感到满意或不满意的人准备的
who are either happy or unhappy with where they're out with a particular aspect of their life,
他们想以积极的方式改变大脑
and they want to shift it in some positive way.
你们很多人可能会说
and many of you listening might say well,
难道不是每个人都想这么做吗
wouldn't everyone want to do that?
确实有一些人  他们在自己的领域已经做得很好
Will actually there are a certain number of people that are pretty good where they're at,
那么他们不想改变
and they don't want to change.
这当然太棒了
and that's terrific.
我向他们脱帽致敬
and I tip my hat to them,
我认为这很好
and I think that's wonderful.
如果有机会
If ever,
他们决定想要利用这些可塑性机制来改变自己
they decide that they want to leverage these plasticity mechanisms,
他们依然
They can,
在生命的任何阶段都可以这么做
at any stage throughout the lifespan.
我们先来谈谈神经系统中具有可塑性的不同系统
Let's start by talking about the different systems within the nervous system that are available for plasticity 
并且
and in doing so,
我每天每周 每年一直在做这些
offering them in the context of what I do on a daily basis on a weekly basis and on a yearly basis.
首先
First of all,
可塑性有几种形式
there are several forms of plasticity.
比如说长期增强作用
They have names like long term potential nation,
长期抑制作用
long term depression,
顺便说一下 这和情绪抑郁没有任何关系
which has nothing to do with emotional depression by the way 
比如时序相依可塑性
and things like spike timing dependent plasticity,
这些名字是用来描述细胞现象的
those names are used to describe cellular phenomenon,
突触的实际方式
the actual ways that the synapses,
神经元之间的连接
the connections between neurons,
改变
change.
我会提到这些东西
I'll mention those things,
我再多给点它们所代表的的意义
and I'll give a little more meant as to what they are.
我提到的时候会说
As I mentioned them.
从优化大脑的角度来看 这可能不是思考可塑性的最佳方式
That's probably not the best way to think about plasticity in terms of optimizing your brain,
最好的方法  是要从短期
the best way to think about it in terms of short term,
中长期  分开来讨论
medium term and long term plasticity.
短期可塑性  是任何你想在当下或当天实现的转变
Shortterm plasticity is any kind of shift that you want to achieve in the moment or in the day,
但你不一定想永远坚持下去
but that you don't necessarily want to hold on to forever.
比如说
And I said,
好
well,
什么样的事情才算是短期
what kinds of things are those Well?
比如
For instance,
短期可塑性可能是  你要在飞机起飞前起床  去赶飞机
shortterm plasticity might be you wake up earlier than you would like to catch a flight.
你没办法很清醒  你想要使用一个方法  或者你决定使用一个方法
You're not feeling particularly alert and you want to use a protocol or you decide to use a protocol which could be 
咖啡也可以  或者是某种形式的呼吸  或者可能其他工具
coffee or it could be a certain form of breathing or could be some other tool to 
让你在平时不清醒的时间段  清醒过来
become more alert at a time of day when normally you aren't that alert.
你应该希望 当你回家时
Your expectation is that when you return home,
你就不用在五点半起床 因为你在那时候还想睡觉
you will discard with that the need to do that at five thirty a m because you'll be asleep at five thirty m.
所以它们是短期可塑性  行为可塑性
So they're short term plasticity behavioral plasticity.
还有中期可塑性
Then there's medium term plasticity,
这些都是你可能想做的改变
which are changes that you might want to make.
当然  我很尊重地把他们称为
I call this with respect,
还有一点幽默
and a little bit of humor.
当然只是我的幽默
release my kind of humour.
我把这称为“医学预科本科”现象 因为曾经和我一起工作过的医学院同学
I call this the the undergraduate premed phenomenon for those of you that have worked with Premier 
当然我非常尊重医科学生和医学预科同学们
and I have tremendous respect for medical students and primates.
有一种刻板印象  虽然我并不认同
There is a kind of a stereotype which I don't necessarily agree with,
但刻板印象是 他们想知道 考试考什么
but the stereotype is that they want to know what they need to know for sake of the exam,
但他们并不是真的想学习这些知识  他们只是想要A
but they don't really want to know they just want the A.
不是每个学生都这样
and I don't think that's always true.
这些年来 我和很多不同的医学院学生合作过
I've worked with a number of different premiums over the years,
他们中有很多人对知识本身充满热情
and there are many of them that are absolutely passionate about the knowledge itself.
当然他们也想要A
And they also wanted the day.
但是“医学预科本科”现象
But the premed phenomenon,
正如在助教  教授们讨论的那样
as its discussed among professors in th,
这些学生
is that that you know you've got these students.
他们只想知道重点
They just want to know what they need to know,
这样他们就能得到答对题
so they can get the right.
这是中期可塑性
It's medium term plasticity.
他们并不想让目标在记忆中停留太久
They don't actually want it to be embedded in their memory too long,
或者他们实际上关心的是中期信息
or else they would actually care about the informations that's medium term information,
有的时候是有用的信息
and sometimes that's useful.
例如
For instance,
如果你去哥斯达黎加度假 你不熟悉当地的路
if you go on vacation to Costa Rica and you don't know your way around Costa Rica,
想了解不同的城镇和那里的路线
who want to learn the different town and the routes there.
但你回去之后  就根本没打算继续记着
But you don't have any intention of going back,
这只是一个中期你想要为自己组建的网络  以此节省时间
it's just medium term you wanted to program it in for the sake of your time there and then you want to 
然后大多数时候用完就丢  当我们思考或谈论优化大脑的时候
discard it most of the time when we think about or talk about optimizing the brain 
我们说的是长期的可塑性
where time a long term plasticity,
我们谈论的是人们想要做出的改变 从而使他们的大脑反射性地以不同的方式工作
we're talking about the kinds of changes that people want to make so that their brain reflexively works differently.
这就是一个孩子从不知道怎么走路到知道怎么走路时所发生的事
This is what a child does when it goes from not knowing how to walk to and knowing how to walk.
在他学会走路后
It doesn't have to think about it.
就不需要考虑这个问题了
After it learns how to walk,
就是反射性的
it becomes reflexive.
长期的可塑性几乎总是宏大的目标
Long term plasticity is almost always the big goal.
我想知道怎么说那种语言
It's I want to know how to speak that language.
我希望自己能够掌握这项技能
I want to be able to do that skill.
我希望不用花太多精力就能做好一件事情
I want to be able to feel this way without having to put much work into it,
有一些工具和方法可以实现这一点
and there are tools and protocols that one can do to achieve that,
我们会讲到这些
and we are going to talk about those.
我们在之前的节目中讨论过一些
We've talked about a few of them in previous episodes,
但我今天会重新讨论这些方法
but I will revisit those protocols today.
我将把所有这些都放在日常生活的背景下
I'm going to frame all this in the context of the daily life,
一周和一年的生活
the weekly life and the yearly life.
这是因为神经可塑性和优化大脑
And that's because neural plasticity and optimizing your brain.
建立在可塑性的深层基础上
Rides on a deeper foundation of this thing that governs plasticity,
事实上 这才是控制着我们生命的  叫做自主觉醒
and in fact governs all our life called autonomic arousal,
也就是在24小时的周期中  睡完之后
which is that were asleep for part of the twenty four hour cycle.
我们几乎总是能醒来 如果我们强迫自己保持清醒
And we are awake almost always if we push ourselves and stay awake where okay,
我们可以这样待一两个晚上
we can do that for a night or two,
但我们几乎总是在其中一部分时间里睡着 而在另一部分时间里醒着
but almost always we are asleep for a portion of it and we are awake for a portion of it.
我之前说过
I've said it before,
我再说一遍
and I'll say it again.
可塑性和学习的触发  发生在注意力高度集中和高度清醒状态下
The trigger for plasticity and learning occurs during high focus on high alertness states.
不是在你睡着的时候
Not while you're asleep,
注意力和警觉性都是关键 因为与这些状态相关的神经化学物质
and the focus and alertness are both key because of the neural chemicals associated with those states.
但在非睡眠深度休息状态下 大脑连接的重新配置发生了实际的重新连接
But the actual rewiring in the reconfiguration of the brain connections happens during non sleep.
还有深度睡眠的情况下   我们以后会讲到
Deep rest which we'll talk more about is always and deep sleep,
所以你清醒的时候触发了这种变化   在睡眠中你就会得到这种变化
so you trigger the change and in sleep you get the change.
所以我们今天要讨论的关于优化大脑的一些事情  不以睡觉为中心
So some of the things that we'll talk about today about optimizing the brain are centered around not sleep.
而是围绕着自主觉醒系统
but around the autonomic arousal system,
我们的大脑和身体都有这样的神经元系统
we have this system of neurons in our brain and body.
这真是不可思议 能让我们清醒
That's just incredible that wake us up and make us alert.
当我们无法进入那个系统时
And when we're not accessing that system,
那么
well,
我们无法获得可塑性
we cannot access plasticity.
我们不能优化我们的大脑
We cannot optimize our brain.
同样的
Likewise,
如果我们睡不好 休息的不好
if we cannot sleep well and we can't rest well,
我们无法获得可塑性并重新连接我们的大脑
we will not access plasticity and rewire our brain because that's
 因为睡眠才是实际发生重新连接的时候
when the actual configuration between the connections occurs.
基于这些背景
So to set this in context.
我每天醒来 坦白讲
I wake up each day and I'll be totally honest.
我通常不想从床上起来
I usually don't feel like bouncing right out of bed.
我通常感觉没有完全休息好
I usually don't feel completely rested,
这并不是因为我睡眠不足
and that's not because they don't get enough sleep.
可能是因为我不擅长把握时间
It's probably because I'm not terrific about timing.
但这个月不是讲睡眠的
My sleep so well now this month isn't about sleep.
这是前一个月的主题
That was the previous month,
但我真的想强调几点
but I really want to emphasize a few points.
我醒来时通常比我想的更累 更昏昏沉沉 因为我往往睡得太晚
I wake up generally more tired and groggy than I would like because I tend to go to sleep too late.
这是我经常做的事
It's just some thing that I do.
我不喜欢早起 因为我设了闹钟 因为我有事情要做
I not tend to get up early either because I set an alarm because I have things to do 
或者因为我自然会早起 因为光线进来了等等
or because I naturally wake up early because the light coming in and so forth.

这告诉我 我的自然昼夜节律你们可能听说过
what that tells me is that I'm probably somebody whose natural circadian rhythm you may have heard of 
慢性的
chrono types.
这些都是基因决定的
These are genetically programmed things,
但慢型的人  昼夜节律短于24小时
but chrono type is shorter than twenty four hours.
这意味着我清醒和警觉的周期可能少于24小时
It means that the cycle of waking and alertness for me is probably shorter than twenty four hours.
这意味着在下午晚些时候获得一些光线可以帮助我转换 使我的周期稍微长一点
Which means that getting some light in the late afternoon will help me shift and make my cycle a little bit longer.
它会逐步推迟我的生物钟  如果听不懂  可以看看之前的几集
It will phase delay me if that doesn't make any sense to see a previous episode,
但我的意思是  在下午得到一些阳光可以让我晚睡一会儿
but what it really means is getting some light in the afternoon will allow me to stay up a little bit later.
但这意味着我并没有真正满足我入睡的固有需求
But what it means is that I'm not really matching my hardwired needs of going to bed,
可能要8点30或9点入睡  早上4点起床
probably at eight, thirty or nine and waking up at four am.
我一般十点三十  十一点左右睡觉  最近大约十一点半或十二点
I tend to go to sleep around ten thirty eleven lately around eleven thirty or twelve,
然后我六点就醒了
and then I wake up at six.
当然
and so of course,
我会有点晕
I'm going to feel groggy.
所以神经可塑性会让我优化清醒状态
So neural plasticity will allow me to optimize my wakefulness.
但我必须做点什么才能得到这种状态
But I have to do something in order to access that.
你们中的一些人可能已经猜到了我将要说的话
And some of you may already be anticipating what I'm about to say,
你们应该会想
which is,
哦
Oh,
不
no,
他会让我们把阳光照进眼睛里
he's going to tell us to get sunlight in her eyes.
提前三十分钟
In the first thirty minutes of the day.
我确实是要告诉你要这么做
I am going to tell you to do that,
但我也要告诉你们一些我之前没有讨论过的事情
but I'm going to also tell you to things that I have not discussed before,
这与黑色素 还有感光细胞
which relate to the plasticity between the melanopsin and sells these sunlight detecting bright light,
检测细胞 以及循环生物钟  之间关系的可塑性有关
detecting cells in our eye and the circadian clock.
我从来没有在这播客中说过这些
I've never said this before in this podcast.
但事实证明 这些黑色素和生物钟细胞之间的联系
But it turns out that the connections between these melanopsin and cells in the circadian clock are plastic 
在整个生命过程中都是可塑的
throughout the lifespan.
在一种叫做星形胶质细胞的细胞中 有大量的连接结构
There's a massive configuration of the connections there in a cell type called the Astrocytes,
这种胶质细胞每天都在积极地移除和加强眼睛之间的连接
which are a glial cell are actively removing and reinforcing connections between the eye in that clock every day.
这是不可思议的 因为你大脑的其他方面
Now this is incredible because other aspects of your brain that,
例如
for instance,
代表着  当你早上醒来时 你知道你是谁 或者名字是什么的连接
Represent you knowing who you are when you wake up in the morning or what your name is,
当然  假设你已经足够大 你已经知道了你的名字
assuming that you're old enough that you've already learned your name 
这也是孩子们学的第一样东西 我们基本上从此就不会忘记
when the first things kids learn in something we rarely ever forget.
这些连接每24小时都在变化
Those connections are changing all the time every twenty four hour cycle,
因此 短期可塑性是可能的
so there's an opportunity for short term plasticity.
这就是为什么你每天第一件事就是晒太阳
So that's why have you sunlight first thing in the day?
让我清醒
It helps me wake up.
我做的另一件事是 在生理时钟和肾上腺之间存在一个回路
The other thing that I do is that there's a circuit that exists between the circadian clock and our adrenals 
我之前提到过 它会触发皮质醇的释放 让我们在早晨醒来
that I've talked about before that triggers the release of cortisol first thing in the morning that wakes us up,
特别是当我们看到光的时候 皮质醇会释放
especially when we view light.
所以 如果你早上感觉昏昏沉沉
so if you're groggy in the morning,
看光线会有很好的改善
that's why viewing light is helpful.
但有趣的是
But the interesting thing is,
如果你开始在早上 频繁地观察光线
if you start viewing light frequently in the morning,
然后黑色素细胞和生物钟之间的联系就会被激活或增强
then those connections between the melanopsin and cells and the circadian clock become primed or potentiate 
我们会说它们会因为期待光线而变得更强 你就会自然地开始早起
did we would say they become stronger for the anticipation of light and you naturally start waking up earlier,
感觉更加清醒
feeling more alert.
这就是说
So what this says is,
我所做的就是保持有规律的光照  因为我知道有些早上我不会很清醒
and what I do is I get that regular light because I know that some mornings I'm just not going to feel very alert,
我会感觉特别累 而且我可能无法接触到阳光 比如阴天
I'll feel especially tired and I might not be able to access sunlight because it's really overcast 
或者我正在旅行或其他有些什么事情
or I'm travelling or some other feature.
但是这个系统是可塑的
But the system is plastic,
所以它会向正确的方向移动
so it shifted in the right direction.
现在它又会转回来 因为这是短期的应急办法 大约只有两三天
Now it will shift back because it's short term policy after about two or three days,
所以你要定期接受阳光照射
so you want to try and get the sunlight exposure on a regular basis.
我做的另一件事就是在我醒来后的  前两个小时里  延迟摄入咖啡因
The other thing that I do is I delay my intake of caffeine for the first two hours that I'm awake now.
我知道这对一些人来说是非常痛苦的
This can be very painful for people.
之前我们讲过腺苷系统  以及腺苷的积累让我们昏昏欲睡
Earlier we talked about the adenosine system and how the accumulation of adenosine makes us sleepy and.
而咖啡因会抑制腺苷
Caffeine suppresses adenosine.
它使我们警觉
It makes us feel alert,
但我们知道 如果你在唤醒肾上腺释放皮质醇的信号时
but we know that if you ingest caffeine immediately on waking the signal to the adrenals to release cortisol,
而这是一种健康的皮质醇释放  立即摄入咖啡因  腺苷会被抑制
which is a healthy release of cortisol and the suppression of adenosine that 
抑制我们从睡眠中醒来和深度睡眠中的腺苷
that that happens as we come out of sleep and in deep sleep.
对腺苷的抑制
the suppression of adenosine.
如果你摄入咖啡因太早
If you ingest caffeine too early,
腺苷会通过一种机制竞争受体
there's a mechanism by which the adenosine competes for the receptors,
这样你可能会有一个“上午崩溃”
So that you have a midmorning crash,
因为如果咖啡因
because if the if caffeine,
因为它的作用
the way it works,
如果咖啡因占据了腺苷受体  那么自然的抑制腺苷的机制
as if caffeine is occupying the adenosine receptor than the natural indigenous mechanisms for suppressing
 就不会产生作用
adenosine are not actually going to have their action.
所以大脑对肾上腺轴  也是有可塑性的
So the brain to adrenal axis is subject to plasticity also,
所以通过延迟咖啡因
and so by delaying caffeine.
直到醒来两小时后再喝
Until about two hours after waking,
我能够捕获并加强  潜在配对的神经回路
I am able to capture and reinforced to potential mate the neural circuit 
存在于生物钟和皮质醇肾上腺素释放的腺体之间
that exists between the circadian clock and the cortisol release in the adrenals as well as leave.
并且让这些腺苷受体不被占用 然后我就可以使用咖啡因
Those adenosine receptors unoccupied so that I can then use the caffeine to 
来自然地提高警觉和注意力
get a natural lift in alertness and focus.
两个小时后
Two hours later,
不需要用它把自己从睡意中唤醒
as opposed to using it just to wake myself up out of sleepiness.
所以虽然我知道有一些睡眼朦胧
So while I'm sure there are some eye rolls out there in some,
还会打哈欠
yawns were all know.
但大家应该清楚  又是有关清晨的阳光
It's the sunlight in the morning thing again.
它是重新调整这些回路的强大工具
It's a powerful tool for readjusting these circuits,
所以短期可塑性  以及在醒来的头几个小时延迟摄入咖啡因的原因
so the shortterm plasticity and the reason for delaying caffeine for the first few hours of the day,
即使刚开始的几天很痛苦
even if its painful to do for the first couple days,
但你之后会很自然地  在没有咖啡因的情况下醒来
is that then you naturally start to wake up more readily in the morning without caffeine.
因为腺苷被自然抑制了  咖啡因和自然腺苷抑制机制就不会相互竞争了
Because the adenosine is suppressed and you don't have these competing,
这被称为腺苷受体的竞争性拮抗
it's called a competing antagonist for the adenosine receptor.
所以我醒来
So I wake up.
因为我想醒得很早 所以最近我会让阳光照到我的眼睛里
I get sunlight in my eyes lately because I wake up very early.
我确实是在用强光来提高警觉性
I do use a bright light to stimulate alertness.
它并不是为这个目的而设计的
It's not actually designed for that purpose.
它只是一束光 大概900勒克斯 然后我再推迟咖啡因
It's just a light wore that as of about nine hundred luxe and then I delay caffeine,
你们中的一些人问过我  那我再强调一遍不是说你们需要这么做
some of you have asked and again I'm not saying that you want to have to do this,
你到底喝什么？
what exactly do you drink?
我是黑咖啡的忠实信徒
I'm a big believer in black coffee.
我也碰巧喜欢黑咖啡
I just happen to like black coffee.
人们问过我关于这种咖啡的问题 我不想在这里说出这种咖啡的品牌名称
People have asked me about and I don't want to name brand names here about this type of coffee,
或者是那种混合了其他东西的咖啡
or that type of coffee mixed with these other kinds of things.
会增加注意力吗
Will that increase focus?

我们会
we're going to.
今天我会讲的很多关于饮食和禁食的使用 以及进食的时机和特定种类的食物
I'm going to talk today a lot about the use of of diet and fasting and timing of foods and certain kinds of foods.
但说实话
But to be honest,
我简单的选择黑咖啡是因为 它总是对我有效
black coffee is just a simple choice that it's always worked for me.
我还会确保早上第一件事就是喝水
I also make sure a hydrate first thing in the morning.
有
There are.
现在有大量数据表明 即使脱水程度稍有增加
There is plenty of data now showing that even a slight increase in dehydration,
也就是说你缺水的时候  会导致人头痛
meaning just when you're lacking water can make people have headaches.
它可以为那些偏头痛患者提供一些额外的帮助
It can provide some additional photophobia for those of you that are migraine.
因为亮光会容易引发偏头痛
Prone bright light can trigger migraines.
这对那些头痛和偏头痛的人来说应该很熟悉
That's no surprise to those of you that get headaches and migraines,
但脱水会加剧偏头痛  和人在头痛面前的脆弱性
but dehydration can can compound the vulnerability to migraine and headache.
所以我喝水
so a drink water.
我喝黑咖啡
I drink black coffee,
我喝拿铁
I drink Latte,
因为我有阿根廷血统
which is just because I have Argentine lineage,
这也是一种高咖啡因的饮料  喝咖啡通常是我起床后做的第一件事
which is just a high caffeine drink first thing in the morning,
但我把它推迟到我醒来后两个小时
But I delay it until two hours after I wake up.
那是因为我想让我的眼睛 我的生物钟和我的肾上腺之间的回路
And that's because I want the circuits between my eye and my circadian clock and my adrenals to be  
以一种特定的方式运作  这样之后  咖啡因会以附加的作用进入身体
functioning in a particular way so that then later the caffeine is an addition.
它才能增加更多的警觉性
It adds more alertness.
这是一个关于如何优化你的大脑的讨论
Now this is a discussion about how to optimize your brain.
很多人醒来很快 很自然地想要从床上跳起来
Many people who wake up quickly and just naturally feel like bouncing out of bed.
我非常羡慕这些人
I envied these people.
他们可以直接去进行一轮的学习  或打理他们的任何事情  没有关系 不会困
They will do just fine by going into a learning bout or taking care of whatever it is that they need to take care of.
有时是一些更普通的任务 比如发邮件或诸如此类的
Sometimes that's kind of more mundane tasks like email or and whatnot.
这里有一个或多或少关于大脑如何运作的规则
Here's a more or less a rule about how the brain functions.
Vis-à-vis  注意力
vis-a-vis focus,
学习和创造力
learning and creativity,
我以后的播客里会详细讨论这个问题
and I'm going to discuss this much more in future Episodes.
一般来说
generally,
当我们非常非常警惕的时候 高度警惕的状态对计划的实施非常有利
states of high alertness when we're very very alert are great for strategy implementation.
当我们已经知道如何做某事的时候
when we already know how to do something.
只要简单地积累  把正确的元素插入正确的框中
It's just a sum simply a matter of plugging the correct elements into the correct boxes,
我之前讲过的“持续时间路径结果”
things I've talked before about duration path and outcome,
为了完成特定的任务 有意识的大脑试图弄清楚三件事
as the three things that the deliberate conscious brain is trying to figure out in order to perform certain tasks,
甚至是认知任务
even cognitive tasks,
这是我们非常擅长的事情 当我们休息好 注意力集中的时候
this is the sort of thing that we are very good at when we're well rested and were focused  
我们的自主觉醒
and our autonomic arousal,
或警觉性
or alertness,
是在一个较高的水平上
rather as it is at a high level,
如果你一起床就进入了一天的警觉性阶段
if you are somebody who is hitting that alertness phase of your day very early right after you wake up,
这是一个很好的时机去做一些事情  研究表明你至少要已经知道这个计划策略
that's a great time to move right into things that at least the research says you already know how the strategy 
并且想要实施这个计划策略
and just want to implement the strategy.
这就是我根本不认为
This is where I fundamentally depart from the idea that,
哦
oh,
你必须完成一天中最困难或最关键的任务
you know you have to do the hardest or most critical task throughout the day.
有时最艰难最关键的
Sometimes the hardest and most critical task,
需要创造力的任务
our task that required creativity.
我们很快会讲到创造力以及与之相关的任务
and as we'll soon talk about creativity and tasks related to it.
通常
Oftentimes.
当我们处于平静的状态 甚至是轻微的睡意时 大脑最擅长实现这些
Come to us based or the brain is best at achieving those when we are in state of calm or even slightly drowsy,
这就是我们将要讨论的有趣的事情
which is something that's interesting in what we'll get into.
但对我来说
But for me,
例如
for instance,
我一起床
I get up,
我一开始并不是很警觉
I'm not terribly alert first thing,
所以我试着调整  让我的大脑和想法开始井然有序
and so I try and just get my brain and my thoughts organized.
对于我来说 这个时间段  我并不能以非常线性的方式回复电子邮件
It's not a time for me to be responding in a very linear fashion to emails 
或做一些计算  要到2小时之后才可以
or carrying out calculations that comes about two hours later.
我想很多人会觉得上午十点左右
I think many people out there will relate midmorning is when we tend to,
很多人都是在那个时候  警觉性和专注力达到顶峰
when many people tend to achieve their peak in alertness and focus.

很多时候我被问到
Many times I get the question,
这就是我接下来要说的  就是我得到的成百上千的问题  都是在问
and this is what I'm about to say is directly related to the hundreds of questions I got about this.
我应该使用背景音乐来学习吗?
Should I use background music in order to learn?
还有什么  隔壁在装修
Should I have you know construction next door?
这是好事还是坏事
Is that a good thing or a bad thing.
还是说处于一个完全安静的环境下更好
Is it better to be in complete silence,

听好了  这视情况而定
Now this will vary.
有些人比其他人更能忍受自己大脑里的噪音
Some people can tolerate their own noise within their head much better than others.
另一些人则发现  一些背景噪音有助于抵消这种影响
Other people find that having some background noise helps cancel that out.
但有一条简单的经验法则
But there's a simple rule of thumb that one can use,
因为至少我的经验是 有时背景音乐/背景噪音对我集中注意力很有帮助
because at least my experience is that sometimes background music background noise is very helpful 
但有时又会让我分心
for allowing me to focus and other times it's very distracting.
那么到底是什么在主导这一切呢
So what actually governs that?

我们必须问自己 如果我们的注意力不集中
we have to ask ourselves what is at the source of the lack of focus if our lack of focus is 
是因为我们的自主觉醒
because our autonomic arousal,
还是因为我们的警觉性非常高
or our alertness is very very high.
我们咖啡喝多了
We had a little too much coffee.
或者如果真有这种事
or if there is such a thing,
可能睡得太久了
slept a little too long,
或者我们非常紧张  或者非常有活力
or we're really stressed or really activated,
在这种情况下 我们似乎无法集中注意力
and we can't seem to focus in that case,
消除背景噪音 尽量保持安静 这样我们就能安静下来
eliminating background noise and really just trying to get silence so that we can quiet some of that.
自主觉醒对学习和执行我们已知的事情
autonomic arousal is going to be best for learning and for implementation of things we already know how to do 
对于任何注意力
for any kind of focus.
一些线性的任务
Linear task,
基本上学习就是专注于线性任务
which basically learning is a focus on linear tasks,
就是你不一定在所有时间都会
is that you're just not necessarily performing it well,
表现得很好
all the time.
上次我们讨论了犯错误
Last time we talked about making errors.
所以作为经验法则
So as a rule of thumb,
如果你感觉太紧张
if you're feeling too keyed up,
那么安静会有帮助
Then silence and quiet is going to be helpful.
事实上
In fact,
如果你非常紧张
if you're very keyed up.
与基底神经节相关的特定回路  在回路中更容易被触发
Particular circuit related to the basal ganglia starts getting triggered more easily in the circuit.
我之后将深入讨论
I'm going to talk about in depth,
它被称为Go-nogo回路
but it's called the Go nogo circuit.
我们有连接前脑的回路
we have circuits that connect our forebrain.
两个是在我们大脑中的结构 叫做基底神经节
two are its structure in our brain called the Basal ganglia,
它实际上是一系列结构和前脑的集合
which is actually a collection of structures and the forebrain,
包括理性想法 思考和计划
which is involved in rational thought and thinking and planning.
总是试图去做计划的行为
An action is always trying to plan.
我应该做什么 然后再去实施这个行动？
what should I do and then implement that action?
基底神经节与这个讨论密切相关
And the basal ganglia are intimately involved in that discussion,
在基底神经节和皮层之间有一个相互交流的回路
there's a reciprocal loop of communication between basal ganglia and cortex.
基底节区与皮层有一组连接 而皮层又与基底节区有一组连接
The basal ganglia has one set of connections to the cortex and the cortex back to the basal ganglia 
这些连接促进了go回路
that facilitates go.
促进了行动
if facilitate action and the molecule.
而神经调质多巴胺
The neuromodulator dopamine.
触发Go回路的激活
Triggers the activation of Go.
会让我们想要做更多的事情
It tends to make us want to do more things.
它倾向于让我们倾向于让多巴胺与D-1受体结合  产生行为
It tends to make us bias toward action by the way that dopamine binds to something called the D-1
D-1受体是一种特定类型的多巴胺受体
receptors  just a particular type of dopamine receptor.
如果你们想知道的话可以记一下
For those of you who want to know.
nogo通路
The nogo pathway,
基底神经节和皮层中抑制活动的通路
the pathway in the basal ganglia and cortex that suppresses action.
它包括多巴胺
It involves dopamine,
与另一个受体结合
binding to this other receptor,
叫做D-2受体   然后D-1 D-2受体
called the D two receptor now d1 d2 receptors
你不能有意识地去决定它们
You can't just consciously decide.
哦
Oh,
我只希望D-1受体和B-2受体激活
I only want my D one receptors and my two receptors B to be active.
你必须思考哪种精神和身体状态有助于go回路 哪种状态有助于
You have to think about which sorts of states of mind and body facilitate go and which ones facilitate.
nogo回路
no go.
这一点非常重要 因为做专注的工作
Now this is critically important because doing focused work,
获得可塑性和学习  都需要做某些事情而不做其他事情
accessing plasticity and learning involve doing certain things and not doing others.
我接下来讲它怎么运作
So here's how it works,
下面是我每天使用的方法
and here's how I apply it on a daily basis.
因为我最警觉的时候
Because I tend to be most alert,
上午十点左右的第一件事
first thing midmorning or so,
然后我通常会喝咖啡
and then I generally will have my caffeine,
上午十点左右
midmorning.
我最清醒警觉的时刻
My hot peak of alertness.
对我来说 一天的前半段  这个时刻发生在9点半到11点之间的某个时间
In the early part of the day is occurring for me some time between nine thirty and eleven m.
但只是我的情况
that's just me.
另一些人可能会在刚从床上爬起来时就有这种感觉
Other people might experience that immediately after rolling out of bed,
他们可能完全清醒 准备好开始工作了
they might be wide awake and ready to go.
在这种情况下 你要小心  不要在混合物中加入咖啡因
In which case this you'd be cautious about throwing caffeine in that mix because of that,
不然这会让他们过于
and it's going to make them very,
清醒警觉
very alert.
有三种级别的自主觉醒使我们更倾向于go
There are three sort of levels of autonomic arousal of alertness that bias us more toward go,
nogo 或者两者同时
no go or both.
这和我在这期播客的评论部分
And this relates to a question that I've gotten now hundreds of times from you 
收到无数次的一个问题有关
in the comments section for this podcast.
那就是当我工作和学习的时候  是应该听音乐？
Which is is it better for me to listen to music in the background while I work and learn.
还是应该呆在完全安静的环境？
or should I have complete silence?
答案是
And the answer is,
视情况而定
it depends.
但这并不取决于你是谁 甚至不一定是一天中的什么时间
But it doesn't depend randomly on who you are or even necessarily time of day.
这取决于你的自主觉醒的整体水平
It depends on your overall or overall level of autonomic arousal,
这要视情况而定 因为自主觉醒的警觉性水平会对我们更倾向于go
and it depends because autonomic arousal level of alertness biases the extent to 
去采取行动
which we are more prone to goes to action or to know,
或nogo  去抑制行为
goes to suppress action and dopamine.
而多巴胺这个四处游动的分子  会倾向于某一个反应
Is this molecule that swimming around and is going to bias one or the other responses
接下来讲一下它的工作原理
So here's how it works.
假设我很清醒警觉
Let's say I'm very alert.
也许我前一天晚上睡得特别好
Maybe I got a particularly good night's sleep the night before.
也许我咖啡喝多了 反正现在我要坐下来做点工作
I had a little too much coffee and I'm going to sit down to some work.
我总是告诉自己 当我非常警觉的时候
The thing to know and what I always tell myself is when I'm very alert,
我很容易go  去行动
I am very prone to go to action,
但我也倾向于不激发nogo  对吧
but I'm also prone to not no go right.
我不太能抑制行为
I'm not going to be very good at suppressing action.
这是两个不同的东西
so those are two different things.
偏向于行动 和偏向于抑制行动是两码事
Being bias toward action and being biased towards suppressing action are two different things.
好
Ok,
这些都是行动和抑制行动
so those are push pole toward action,
的推杆
suppress action.
所以当你非常警觉的时候
so when you're very alert,
你对一切事物都有刺激的倾向
the tendency is for everything to be a stimulus.
这就是为什么当人们说  嗯
This is why when people say well,
我是不是应该吃那种药   来提高我的肾上腺素水平和警觉性
should I just take a drug like that will increase my level of epinephrine and alertness.
从而帮助我更好地学习？
Will that help me learn better?
它会让你有动力做一些事情
Know because it will make you do things,
但它也会让你不能够抑制不必要行为
but it will also make you less good at suppressing actions that you need to suppress.
所以如果我非常警觉 特别是对我来说 我意识到这种状态的时候
So if I'm very alert particularly alert for me and I recognize what that state is,
当然
of course,
因为每个人都是不同的
because everyone will be different.
我知道这对我的意义
I know what it is for me.
那么我就需要安静的环境来学习
Then I want silence for learning.
我需要关掉我的网络
I want to shut down my Internet,
这是我做的事情
which I do.
我有时使用一个程序 我记得是个免费的app  叫Freedom
I sometimes use a program that I believe is a free program called Freedom,
它会在特定的时间内  把你锁在互联网之外
Where it actually locks you out of the Internet for a particular time,
他们不是播客的赞助商
they're not a sponsor of the podcast.
我只是碰巧用了  然后说一下
I just happened to use it,
还有另一种形式的限制 你去找到无线设备
and there's another version of freedom where you go to the wireless thing,
然后把它关掉
and you turn it off.
那你就断开了无线网络
You disconnect from the wireless.
这是另一个方法
That's the other one,
尽管很多人都会忍不住再去把它打开
although many people have a hard time not reactivating it,
所以我试着关闭让我分心的通道
so I'm trying to shut down the the go pathway towards distraction,
我会做的另一件事是  我会关掉我的手机
and the other thing that I'll do is I'll generally turn off my phone.
把手机放在外面的车里   还有一次特别极端
Put the phone outside in the car or in really extreme cases.
我把它
I'll put it.
我把它扔到屋顶上
I'll throw it up on the roof,
那我就拿不到了
which is hard for me to retrieve so that I can't get to it.
如果我很警觉
So if I'm very alert,
我意识到我会倾向于行动
I'm aware that I will have a bias toward action.
我很难抑制不行动
It will be hard for me to suppress non action,
但这是非常不具体的 因为警觉性的下一个层次
but that it's very nonspecific because the next kind of level,
或自主觉醒的下一个层面
down of alertness or autonomic arousal is clear,
是清楚  冷静和专注  在这个层面 我们有一个最佳平衡点
calm and focused where we have that kind of sweet spot between.
我们非常愿意采取行动  处于一种行动模式
Our willingness to pursue action were in a mode of go,
不一定是身体活动
and it's not always physical action,
也可以是追求艰难的学习
but it can be pursuing hard bouts of learning.
我们抑制行为的能力也很好
That our ability to suppress is also very good,
这是因为 不过我也不想讲太多细节
and this is because and I don't want to get into too many details because of the way 
多巴胺是如何竞争的
that dopamine competes for these dopamine.
一个是go通路中的多巴胺受体 一个是nogo通路中的
One receptors in the NGO pathway in dopamine receptors in the nogo pathway.
它们总是处于这种推拉状态
They're always in this kind of push pull,
所以有一个最佳平衡点
and so there is a sweet spot,
而这个 最佳平衡点 不是流动的
and that sweet spot isn't flow where it isn't.
不是说在某种状态下 它突然自然地出现了
some sort of state where all of a sudden things come naturally to us.
我们试图达到最优学习的这种状态
The state that we're trying to achieve that's optimal,
是一种我们有精力和注意力去追求东西
for learning is one in which we have the energy and focus to pursue,
但我们也有精力和注意力来抑制行动
but we also have the energy and focus to suppress action.
所以基底神经节以一种完美的方式
so the basal ganglia are kind of working in a perfect kind of singsong ye manner 
通过这个平行通路工作
through this parallel pathway now,
当我们累了 或者当我们完成一个大约90分钟的昼夜周期
as we get tired or as we round out an old treaty in cycle of about ninety minutes.
我们的疲劳
What happens is our fatigue,
即使不是身体上的疲劳  让我们想要睡觉的那种
even if it's not a physical fatigue that makes us want to go to sleep.
我们的精神疲劳也开始累积 因为这些神经通路实际上
but our mental fatigue starts to accumulate because these pathways of go nogo are actually 
非常消耗代谢
very metabolically consuming.
所以我意识到 当我开始注意力不集中时
So what I recognized is that as I start to falter,
我很难投入和行动
I have a harder time engaging and going.
我知道我正朝着目标前进
I also know you're going toward the goal.
相反
Rather,
我也知道我对与学习无关的行为的反射也会开始增加
I also know that my reflex toward actions that are unrelated to the learning are also going to start increasing 
因为我无法抑制
because I'm not going to be able to suppress the.
我不能够
I'm not gonna.
不能够抑制行动  并激活nogo通路
Be able to suppress action and activate the nogo pathway.
如果这听起来很拗口
So if this all sounds like a mouthful,
那么简单来讲 当你非常警觉的时候
let's make it very simple for you when you are very alert,
学习的最佳情境就是安静
The best situation for learning is going to be silence.
是完全安静的环境
it's going to be complete,
如果你是低清醒  疲倦的状态
quiet if you are low arousal and you're tired,
你有点困了
and you're kind of sleepy.
很多人发现一些背景的闲聊声和一些背景噪音
A lot of people find that having some background chatter and some background noise 
可以帮助他们提高自主觉醒的水平
can help elevate their level of autonomic arousal.
这是因为我们的听觉系统和视觉系统是相连的
And that's because our auditory system in our visual system are linked and 
它们是显着络的一部分
are part of what's called the salient network,
显着络就是我们总是在扫描我们的环境  寻找东西
which is that we're always scanning our environment for things.
当我们的环境中有很多东西需要扫描时
And when we have a lot of things in our environment to scan generally,
我们的警觉性会提高
our level of alertness goes up.
这就是为什么  如果在一个环境是光秃秃的  或者没什么东西  那我们在里面会感到冷静下来
This is why environments that are very stark or have very little or very few objects in them tend to make us feel 
因为我们的显着络接近于被关闭
kind of calm because our salients network kind of shuts off a lot of people.
很多人不喜欢这种  比如他们去冥想静修
Don't like that they'll go to a meditation retreat retreat,
或者他们会进入一个没有杂乱的环境
or they'll go into an environment where there is very little clutter,
特别是城市里的人
especially city people,
突然之间 他们开始觉得
and all of a sudden they start feeling really,
非常焦虑
really anxious.
这是因为他们内部的自主觉醒水平非常高
And that's because their internal level of autonomic arousal is really high,
而自主觉醒并没有被所有需要关注的东西占据
and it's not being occupied by all this stuff to pay attention to,
所以他们的显着络
and so they're salience.
开始向内发展
network starts to turn inward.
他们从外部的干扰变成了内部的干扰
They move from extra deception to interception.
他们没有看自己的外部世界
They're not looking outside themselves,
他们在看自己的内心
their looking inside themselves,
里面有很多噪音
and there's a lot of noise in there.
所以作为经验法则
So as a rule of thumb,
如果你倾向于高度警觉和焦虑的状态
If you tend to be kind of on the high level of alertness and kind of anxiety,
我说的不是临床上的焦虑
and I'm not talking about clinical levels of anxiety,
而是你的精力非常充沛
but you tend to be pretty high energy.

那么你肯定会在学习行为的过程中受益更多
then you are definitely going to benefit more in a learning bout from learning to go,
并激活需要大量能量的nogo通路
as well as activate the nogo pathway that requires a lot of energy,
当你周围有很多让你分心的事物时
and when you have a lot of distractions in your environment,
我们很有可能会在学习中被分心
there's a high probability that we're going to be distracted from the learning.
有些人天生就更冷静
Now some people are just naturally more calm.
就像我的斗牛犬
They're like my bulldog,
科斯特洛
Costello,
他非常的冷静
who is exceedingly calm.
他们很成熟
They're pretty mellow.
它们通常都很清醒
They're kind of clear common,
一直都很专注
focused all of the time.
这些人实际上本来就没有那么容易激动
and those people actually are going to be less flammable.
他们不会被背景噪音干扰
they're not going to be yanked around by background noise,
或者他们不会
or they're not to be around.

被厨房里锅的叮当声所干扰
bothered from their learning or from their study by a clanging of a pot from somebody in the kitchen.
所以我们每个人通常都倾向于在这个自主觉醒的阶梯上上下浮动
So each one of us generally tends to ride up and down this autonomic ladder,
对大多数人来说 是一天中的不同时间
so to speak at different times a day for most people,
醒了三个小时后
three hours after waking those three hours,
这三个小时往往是他们一天中
Not three hours on the markup of that three hour been tends to be the period in which 
最清醒的时间
they are most alert throughout the day.
不过我稍后会告诉你  睡觉前有一段特殊的时间
except I'll tell you later about a unique time right before sleep,
在那段时间里  你也会非常
in which you are also very,
非常警觉
very alert.
自然地警觉
naturally,
所以早晨
so that morning,
那三个小时是非常重要的
three hours is quite vital.
很多人可能会问关于运动  以及什么时候运动
Now many of you might ask about exercise and when to exercise.
我想我可能在之前的播客中提到过这个
I think I may have mentioned this on a previous podcast episode.
但研究表明 至少就表现而言
But the research shows that at least for performance,
在下午
afternoon,
运动也许能更好地避免受伤
exercise might be better in terms of avoiding injury,

但是说到体温的上升和与体温相匹配的精神警觉性
But in terms of rising body temperatures it and matching body temperature to have mental alertness,

很明显 早起锻炼不仅会让我们更早起床
It's pretty clear that exercising early in the day not only biases us towards waking up earlier,
但它也会触发像肾上腺素和其他神经调节物质的释放
but that it also triggers the release of things like up an epinephrine and other neuromodulators that 
这些物质会让我们在上午晚些时候甚至下午都处于高度觉醒
lend itself to a situation where we have heightened levels of arousal and mental acuity 
和精神敏感的状态
in the late morning and even into the afternoon.
这是非常好的 因为如果你想把你集中学习的大部分时间
And this can be very good because if you want to restrict most of your focused learning 
限制在一天的早期
to the early part of the day,
早起锻炼确实会让你产生神经化学反应 让你变得更有动力
Exercising early in the day does set a neurochemical context or mill you for go.
它会触发go通路的激活
It tends to trigger activation of the NGO pathway,
所以对于那些像我一样  很难在一天的早些时候
and so for those of you like myself who have a hard time kind of engaging and getting into action 
振作精神 行动的人
early in the day,
清晨
early morning,
醒来后一小时内锻炼
exercise within an hour of waking,
当然也不能迟于醒来后三小时
and certainly no later than three hours after waking.
会给你一整天提供更多的精力
We'll give you quote unquote more energy throughout the day.
这会让你更倾向于行动
It will make you feel more bias for action.
你不会感到昏昏欲睡 所以在回顾我之前做的事情 我早晨会照光看光
you won't feel as lethargic so in kind of reviewing what I've set up until now I do the morning light thing.
我醒来后会延迟两小时喝咖啡
I delay my caffeine two hours after waking,
我一般会在起床后的一个小时内锻炼 最好是在起床后的三个小时内
and then I generally try and get exercising in the first hour or ideally within the first three hours of waking up,
然后我会集中学习一轮
and then I'll move into a focused learning about now.
你们有些人给我评论说
Some of you wrote to me and said,
如果我在早上锻炼
if I exercise early in the day,
然后我在之后会感到一阵崩溃
then I feel a crash afterwards.
如果这个锻炼
If that exercise is very,
非常强烈地消耗了你所有的糖原
very intensely are depleting all your glycogen,
如果你在做举重训练
so you're doing heavy dead lifts,

很有可能在你吃完饭后
Chances are after you eat,
你会开始感到精力不足
You will start to feel a crash.
这与营养时间和兴趣  有关作为一般经验法则
so this relates to timing of nutrition and interest as a general rule of thumb 
禁食状态和低碳水化合物状态
fasted states and low carbohydrate states,
我说的不是全天候的生酮饮食
I'm not talking about a keto diet round the clock or all week,
只是禁食状态和低碳水化合物状态会让人清醒
but fasted states and low carbohydrate states lend themselves to alertness.
这是因为碳水化合物富含色氨酸
And that's because carbohydrates are rich in tryptophan.
它们进入血液往往容易犯困
They tend to lend themselves to sleepiness,
当然
of course,
任何情况下  大量摄入食物
ingesting large amounts of any kind of food.
任何填满肠道的物质  都会将血液转移到肠道
Any substance that fills your gut will divert blood to your gut.
所以如果你吃很多食物
So if you eat a lot of food,
不管它是不是碳水化合物
regardless of whether or not it's a lot of carbohydrate or not,
你都会感到更加困倦
you're going to generally feel more sleepy.

很多人
many people,
包括每一个
including everyone,
用食物来调节它们的自主觉醒水平的人
use food to modulate their levels of autonomic arousal,
通常情况下的进食
and typically eating shifts.
让我们转向平静的状态  禁食会使我们更多地转向警觉的状态
us more towards a state of calm and fasting shifts us more toward a state of alertness.
这些都是
And these are hard,
与寻找食物的需求和欲望相关的固定连接/回路
wired circuits that relate to the need and desire to find food,
这需要行动
which requires action,
或者是所谓的休息和消化系统  将我们的能量转移到消化上
or the so called rest and digest system which it diverts our resources in our energy towards digestion.
它让我们感到平静
It makes us feel calm,
所以我个人依赖水
so I personally rely on water,
拿铁和黑咖啡作为一整天的第一件事  然后锻炼身体 进入第一轮工作
Latte and black coffee first thing in the day in order to exercise and get into the first round of work.
如果我发现我太警觉了 我一般会吃东西
If I find that I'm too alert and then I generally will tend to eat and kind of,
降低我的警觉性 继续工作
bring down my level of alertness and will continue working now.
这不是一个严格的规定
this isn't a strict thing.
既然人们问我日常是怎么做的  我才说一下  我并不是要求大家都严格遵守这个
and since people asked me what I do and I'm not dictating that people follow it exactly,
当然了
of course,
一般情况下我会这么做
or even generally.
我告诉你我是怎么做的
but I'll just tell you what I do it.
如果你喝黑咖啡 喝拿铁 摄入了大量的水
It is possible if you're drinking black coffee and your Latte and you're ingesting a lot of water 
你可能会脱水  这是因为钠的排除
that you're going to dehydrate yourself somewhat because of excretion of sodium  
前提是你没有高血压
provided you don't have hypertension.
盐真的是一种好东西
Salt is a really good thing.
如果一个人身体不稳定 无法思考  通常他们会认为自己的血糖很低
A lot of people think that they are low on blood sugar because there are shaky and they can't think,
或者当他们的钠含量很低 尤其是喝了很多咖啡因的时候 他们就会头疼
or they have a headache when actually they're low in sodium and especially if you're drinking a lot of caffeine,
所以我是盐的忠实信徒
so I'm a big believer in salt,
我早上第一件事就是喝盐水 因为我喝黑咖啡
so I've drink salt water first thing in the morning because I drink black coffee,
黑咖啡让我的警觉性很好
and that keeps my levels of alertness really good.
我一直以为我的手绘颤抖  是因为我把自己的血糖搞乱了
I always thought that I had messed up blood sugar at shaky hands,
我不知道在喝咖啡的时候发生了什么 感觉太兴奋了
And I didn't know what was going on during a little bit of coffee and feel too amped up  
结果发现这是钠的问题
and turns out that it was a sodium issue,
如果我在喝的水里加一点海盐 或者只是普通的
and if I just drank water with a little bit of sea salt in or even just a general table,
食用盐
a typical table salt,
我马上感觉我的血糖稳定了下来
then I'd felt rock solid in terms of my blood sugar.
再说一次
Now again,
我不是医生
I'm not a physician.
我是一个教授
I'm a professor,
所以我不开任何处方
so I don't prescribe anything,
我都是在讲道理  所以我不想让糖尿病患者或有血糖问题的人们 偏离固有的治疗轨道
but I profess lots of things so I don't want people have diabetes or blood sugar issues to go off the rails.
你要对自己的健康负责
You are responsible for your health,
不是我
not me,
这是一个有趣的参数 你可以尝试一下  前提是如果你的医生说可以 那就可以
but it's an interesting parameter to think about in an experiment with provided that your doctor says it's OK,
因为我认为很多人可能只是摄入了太多的钠
because I think a lot of people probably just too much sodium.
但很多人可能都缺乏钠
but a lot of people might be sodium deficient,
特别是
in particular.
禁食的人们
the people that are fasting.
我通常在中午左右吃第一顿饭
I typically eat my first meal right around midday,
不管我有没有锻炼过
whether or not I've exercised or not,
这时候食物的组成对我来说非常重要
and the food content there is actually quite important to me.
我也不知道这是为什么
I don't know why this is.
还没有一个科学的机制能解释其中的原理
I don't have a scientific mechanism for this,
但如果我午餐吃热的食物
but if I eat hot food for lunch,
午饭后我就会犯困
I'd get sleepy after lunch,
所以我中午一般不吃热的食物
so I generally don't eat hot food for lunch.
我可能会喝点汤之类的
I might have a little bit of soup or something like that.
但总的来说 我只吃低碳水化合物的食物
But in general I rely on a low carbohydrate meal.
我会吃肉 沙拉或含有的脂肪的坚果之类的东西
I'll eat meat or salad or some variation that nuts in fats and things like that 
因为获得注意力需要一定胆碱含量
because of the choline content for focus,
因为我相信蛋白质是好的
because the protein is good in my belief,
因为我相信要多吃水果和蔬菜
and because I believe in eating fruits and vegetables,
我也是这么做的
I do that too.
如果我在早上很努力地锻炼
If I've exercised very hard early in the day,
我之后会吃一些淀粉 比如燕麦
I do in jest starches like oatmeal,
或者大米和水果之类的东西
or rice and fruit and things like that.

我为什么要告诉你这些呢
why am I telling you all this?
因为几百
Because hundreds,
甚至上千人问我
if not a thousand people ask me,
禁食有助于集中注意力吗
Is fasting good for focus?
禁食确实会提高警觉性
And indeed fasting will increase alertness.
但如果你太饿了 一心扑在食物上 那你就无法集中注意力
But if you're so hungry or preoccupied with food that you can't focus will,
那对学习就没有好处了
Then it's not going to be good for learning,
这只会对焦虑有好处
it's only going to be good for agitation.
那我继续
I'm just going to Mark.
继续讲我的一天
continue marched through my day,
这是
and this is,
当然是我所经历的
of course what I experienced.
跟其他人很不一样
Some people are quite different,
但我发现大约是下午2点或3点左右
but what I find is around two or three P m.
我开始有点昏昏沉沉 有点困
I start getting a little groggy a little bit sleepy.
我倾向于把我的一些  需要仔细分析“持续时间路径结果”的工作
I will tend to shift my work from work that requires a lot of duration path,
转移出来
outcome,
并且激活nogo通路
really careful analysis and activation of the nogo pathway,
也就是说 我试图抑制看手机 回邮件或做其他事情的冲动
meaning I'm trying to suppress the impulse to look at my phone or answer email or do other things.
这就是为什么我有一个3点的邮件due  一定要在下午三点前回复邮件
This is why I have an email due back until three in the afternoon.
回复收到的短信
By the way of responding to your text messages,
不管是谁发的邮件我都这样
whoever you are out there.
在下午早些时候
Around early afternoon,
我觉得我可以做一些典型的
I find I can do kind of typical,
更无趣的任务
more mundane tasks,
因为这些任务需要
because those tasks or require less code,
它们需要较少的认知负荷 可以按常规的操作或多或少地完成
they have required less cognitive load and they can be done more or less in and out of sequence.
我可以在这里回复一些电子邮件
I can answer a couple of email here.
也许在那里回复那封邮件
Maybe answer that email there.
我不需要用完全的
I don't have to do it in a pure,
线性方式去回复邮件
linear fashion,
任何线性的工作或学习都需要集中精力
any kind of linear work or learning work is going to take a lot of focus.
下午四点左右 我会做两件事
and then typically around four pm or so I do two things,
有时比四点更早一点
sometimes a little earlier.
有的时候稍晚一点
Something is a little later,
我会做两件事
but I do two things.
一是我要确保自己摄入水分 因为如果你在锻炼  或者吃东西
one is I make sure I hydrate because if you're exercising and you're eating,
你需要消化食物
you need to digest that food,

所以我一定要喝水
I make sure I hydrate so I drink water.
我尽量避免在下午喝咖啡
I try and refrain from drinking coffee in the afternoon.
我不怎么喝
This is a new thing for me.
我有时也这样会来一杯
I sometimes do it,
但我尽量克制自己
but I try to refrain from that,
然后我总是在下午的某个时间做一个非睡眠深度休息练习
and then I always do a non sleep Deep rest protocol sometime in the afternoon.
有时是10分钟的瑜伽休息术
This is sometimes a ten minute.
有时候是三十分钟的
Yoga drew a type protocol or a thirty minute.
瑜伽休息术
yoga ninja type type protocol.
这些方法和我没有任何关系  没有任何的商业关系
These are protocols that I have no relationship to no business relationship to whatsoever.
我已经做了好几年了  现在他们有这些音频脚本  已经放评论区了
I've been doing them for years now they involve listening to a script will provide the links again,
虽然我们以前试过
although we've tried them before.
或者我提供的催眠音频脚本 在Reverie Health上
or I'll do a hypnosis protocol from Reverie Health,
这是我的同事
which is my colleague,
David Spiegel的网站  提供了这些免费的催眠音频
David Spiegel's website that has these free hypnosis,
你可以听应用程序  或脚本  这些都让我进入一种真正深度休息的状态
apps or scripts that you can listen to and those take me into a state of really deep rest.
有时我都睡着了
Sometimes so much so that I fall asleep,
然后我总是设一个闹钟 让我的睡眠时间不超过90分钟
and I always set an alarm that I don't sleep for longer than ninety minutes,
通常是30分钟左右
but typically this goes for about thirty minutes,
我这样做是因为我在下午四点半的时候
and I do that because for me by about four thirty in the afternoon,
我基本上什么也做不了
I'm capable of doing basically nothing.
我就是一只彻头彻尾的科斯特洛
I am just a complete costello.
我无法思考  无法做事情
I can't think I can't do.
我无法回复邮件
I can't respond to email.
我已经完全没有了振作的能力
I've just completely troughs my ability to function.
我个人认为在这个时候喝双倍浓缩咖啡并使劲充电是个错误
I personally find it a mistake to at that point down a double espresso and charge really hard.
这对我来说行不通
It just doesn't work for me.
不然我的睡眠时间表会被打乱
I end up really disrupting my sleep schedule.
之后可能会搞砸很多不同的事情
I end up disrupting a lot of different things.
所以对我来说 我采用非睡眠深度休息方案
So for me I do the non sleep deep Rest protocol.
这对我很有帮助
It really helps me later.
特别是之后当我真正需要入睡的时候
when I need to fall asleep.
它对各种事情都有帮助
It helps with all sorts of things,
正如我之前提到的
as I mentioned before,
我通常醒来时会有点昏昏沉沉 或者感觉我还得再活一天
but I usually emerge from that a little groggy or feeling like I have another whole day.
开启第二波  不停工作
Second wind like I could just work,
工作
work,
工作
work,
工作
work,
工作
work,
然后我会进行第二轮学习
and then I'll do a second bout of learning.
我将做一些工作 包括线性分析
I'll do some sort of work That either involves linear analysis of something,
可能是数值运算
so maybe numerical work,
或者我想学点什么
or I'm trying to learn something.
我通常会尝试使用90分钟的时间
I generally try and really use those bouts of ninety minute.
在非睡眠深度休息后  集中精力
focus energy after the non sleep deep rest.
正如我在之前的节目中提到的
And as I've mentioned in previous episodes,
有很多证据表明这些NSDR方法
there's a lot of evidence that these non sleep deep breaths.
可以增强和加速可塑性
Protocols can enhance and accelerate plasticity.
其中
The most,
我认为的原因和引人注目的一点是  我们上次在评论区置顶中提到的研究
I think reason and striking one is the study that we referenced last time in the caption,
《细胞》的一篇文章
Notes was a cell press article.
《细胞》一个非常棒的期刊  报告显示 NSDR中的这20分钟的浅盹
Cell reports Great Journal was showing that these twenty minute got a shallow naps in non sleep.
可以促进感觉运动学习
Deep breaths can facilitate sensory motor learning.
接下来我要讲另一个关于
So then I'll go into another learning about.
这不需要咖啡因
That's caffeine free.
这种学习方式与早晨的学习方式非常不同
This learning about is very different than the than the morning one.
这是一种锻炼的周期或学习的周期
This is a work bout or learning bout.
这更多的是在明确的常见注意力机制中
That's more in the clear common focus regime.
因为我已经从这非睡眠的深度休息中醒来了
because I've come out of this non sleep deep rest.
我没有再摄入咖啡因 因为我想确保我晚上能睡得很好
I'm not ingesting caffeine because I want to make sure that I can sleep later that night really well.
当我做创造性的工作时 这种情况会更多发生
and this tends to be more when I do creative type work.
创造力是一个我们将花整个月的时间讨论的话题 马上就会讲到
Now creativity is a topic that we're going to spend the entire month on coming up soon.
创造力是一种非常有趣的思维状态 在这种状态中 我们将现有的元素
But creativity is a very interesting state of mind in which we're taking existing elements,
我们已经知道的东西  以新颖的方式重新排列  有些人听到这可能会说 “害
things that we already know and rearranging them in ways that are novel they will die.
这不就是创造力嘛”
That's what creativity is,
但是创造力有两个部分它有一个创造性的发现模式
But creativity has two parts it has a creative discovery mode where 
你可以用一种非常放松的方式打乱这些元素
you're kind of shuffling things around in a very relaxed way,
非常有趣地  或者探索不同的配置
and I'm being playful or exploring different configurations 
然后创造力也有一个绝对线性的实现模式
and then creativity also has an absolutely linear implementation mode 
在这个模式中你利用你的想法或设计创造出一些非常
in which you take the idea or the design you've come up with and you create something very rope,
稳固的结构
robust in concrete.
所以创造力是由两部分组成的
And so creativity is really a two part thing.
积极探索不同形态的第一部分
and the first part of actively exploring different configuration,
有时以一种有趣的方式探索
sometimes in a playful way,
有时在某种程度上几乎是随机的 只是一种探索
sometimes in a in a way that's almost random and just kind of exploring that.
放松和几乎昏昏欲睡肯定会促进这种状态
State is definitely facilitated by being relaxed and almost sleepy.
我个人在早晨  并不能很好地进入这种状态
That is not a state that I personally can access very well Early in the day.
我试图在睡眠中进入这种状态   那么有人会说
I've tried to access it coming out of sleep because one would say well.
你在早上还是很困   但我不行 早上我写的大部分创新内容
You're still sleepy early in the day and just doesn't work most of what I write down.
我做的大部分创新的事情  都是垃圾
Most of what I do is complete garbage.
所以我发现在下午  大约90分钟
And so what I found is there's this block in the afternoon of about ninety minutes,
那个时候  我可以做创造性的写作或创造性的科学想法想象
where I can do creative typewriting or creative type imagination of.
或创造性实验
Scientific ideas or experiments we might want to do 
对你们很多人来说  科学可能不是一个富含创造性的领域
science might not seem like a creative endeavor to many of you,
但是它包含了很多的想象 如果我们可以把这些结合起来
but it is has a lot of imagining what if this or we could combine that and thinking 
思考新的概念或新的安排事物的方式
of novel concepts or ways of arranging things.
当你发现自己有这种明显的一般注意力模式
So when you find yourself in that kind of clear common focused mode,
在那种状态下 创造性的工作往往会很好地产生
creative works tend to come about very well in that in those regimes.
我知道很多人依赖一些物质  来达到创造性的状态
and I know that a lot of people out there rely on substances to access creative states.
我不吸大麻 就只是因为这种毒品对我来说不适合
I'm not a marijuana user is just not the drug for me,
由于各种原因
for a variety of reasons.
我也不喝酒
I'm not a drinker.
我不是这一卦的
It's not that not the substance for me,
也是由于各种原因
for a variety of reasons.

我不是警察
I'm not a cop.
所以我不是来告诉你们  该做什么 不该做什么
I'm not here to tell you what they should do or shouldn't do.
使用物质来获取创造力的问题是
The problem with using substances to access creativity is that 
通常那些让人放松的物质
generally the ones that the substances that relaxed people will allow them 
会让他们进入创造性的头脑风暴模式
to get into that creative brainstorming mode,
但他们会不太擅长线性实现模式
but not so good at the linear implementation mode you know.
前几天
At the other day,
我和一个朋友说
I was remarking with a friend that
 这些年来我看到了一些特别棒的广告  完全不敢相信
there's some add some advertisements that I've seen over the years that are just incredible.
我来告诉你是什么
I'll just tell you what they are,
这里没有什么好神秘的  我在表明我的品味
so there's not cryptic or anything I'm revealing my taste here.
有一支广告
There's a one.
斯派克·琼斯做了一个特别的香水广告 非常棒
There is a particular perfume ad that Spike Jones made that it's just amazing.
就真的
it's just,
我会给它放个链接 因为它太酷了
I'll put a link to it because it's just so cool,
我不想把结局说出来
and it's just so and I don't want to give away the end,
但它有一个特点  让我作为一个神经科学家特别感兴趣
but it has a feature of it that is particularly interesting to me as a neuroscientist and just a cool,
因为我从小就玩滑板
and because I grew up in the skateboarding thing,
我对斯派克的电影和滑板
I knew a little bit about spikes,
有点了解
movies and skateboarding,
当然 他也拍了很多令人印象深刻的流行电影
and he's of course made a lot of very impressive popular movies as well.
完整的电影
Full length features.
我私底下并不认识他
I don't know him personally,
但这不是一个商务
but this isn't a plug.
他根本不需要我的推广
Not that he needs my endorsement for anything at all.
但这个广告的神奇之处在于
But the the amazing thing about this advertisement is,
它是一种  它是一种  你从未想过会被结合在一起的东西的集合
it's a kind of it's a collection of things that you would never really think would be combined.
它涉及到不同的运动速度和各种效果
And it involves different speeds of motion and in all sorts of effects,
我的意思是
I mean,
就像斯派克·琼斯那种经典的表达方式
it's like a real classic like Spike Jones kind of delivery.
但令人难以置信的是  不仅仅是得有人想象出这个创意
But what's incredible is when you think about not just the fact that someone had to imagine that,
而且还要实现这个创意
but to actually implement the steps in order to create that,
当你看到这个
when you see this,
你会意识到那是一大堆工作
you'll realize that was a ton of work.
你不能随便把它们组合在一起
You can't just put that together randomly.
所以很多人  当然并不包括斯派克
and so a lot of people not spike clearly,
但是很多人都有不可思议和新奇的想法  可以想到各种东西的组合
but a lot of people who can who have an incredible mined for ideas and novel novel arrangements of things.
他们可能很轻松地就能够
They are graded,
进入状态
accessing that state,
但不太擅长进入真正实践的状态
but not so good at accessing the implementation state.
还有一点是  确实  有很多人有些人倾向于我们所说的
And then it's also true that a lot of people and some who tend to fall on what we would call 
像亚斯伯格症或者是某些自闭症  他们会非常擅长线性执行
the kind of like more asperger's or autism end of the spectrum are very good at linear implementation.
我说的不是所有类型的自闭症
Now I'm not talking about all forms of autism.
当然
Of course,
我对这个事实很敏感  自闭症有很多形式
I'm sensitive to the fact that there are many forms on the spectrum,
但有些人很擅长线性实现
but some people are very good at linear implementation,
这是一种独立于创造性状态的状态
and that's a separate state from a creative states.
所以在下午的时段 我试着进入一种更自由 更放松的心态
So that afternoon block is when I try to access the freer kind of looser mindset 
这种心态与下午晚些时候的疲劳有关
that's associated with the fatigue that comes later in the afternoon.
对于你们中的一些人来说
For some of you,
更好的创造力和创造性学习的状态可能在早上
that state that favors creativity and creative learning might be better in the morning.
我无法了解你们的情况
I don't know it.
你们必须做出决定
You're going to have to decide for some of you,
有一部分人  可能更晚一点
you're going to be late shifted.
你们中的一些人可能更早一点
some of you are going to be morning shifted,
但是当我们有警觉性的时候
but where we have alertness generally,
我们擅长线性执行  擅长激活抑制行为的nogo通路
we are good at linear implementation were good at activating the nogo pathway in suppressing action,
我们擅长于追求特定的目标和战略实施
and we were good at at pursuing particular goals and strategy implementation.
那我们在什么地方会更放松呢
and where are we tend to be more relaxed?
什么时候处于一种昏昏欲睡的状态呢
and we tend to be almost in a kind of sleepy mode?
所以对我来说 我是从NSDR中刚醒过来的时候
So for me coming out of one of these non sleep deep rest modes are or sleep.
这时我们更擅长于现有元素的新构型
That's when we tend to be better at novel configurations of existing elements,
这是创造力
which is creativity,
这就带来了一个问题 我一直收到这个问题
and this brings about a question that I get all the time,
关于迷幻药的问题
which is what about psychedelic stuff.
所以我之后会和一些迷幻药的专家谈谈
So I am going to talk to some experts on psychedelic.
我希望把其中的一些带到播客里讲一讲
I hope to bring some of them in actually speaking on people coming in 
说到邀请的人或者邀请的生物  刚才  一只绝对不需要迷幻药的生物
or creatures coming in a creature that is definitely not on psychedelic.
一点都不需要的一只生物
Who doesn't need any
科斯特洛  他刚进来了
As Costello and he just arrived,
他似乎处于昏昏欲睡的状态
he seems to be in a sleepy state.
大多数时候都这样
Most all the time 
嗨 兄嘚 怎么啦  你不进来吗？
Hey buddy how are you doing are you come in?
哈
Yeah,
他正在准备今天里的  第五十次
he's working on his fiftieth sleep.
睡眠深度休息
deep rest episode of the day,
之后通常是10到12个小时
which is generally followed by a ten to twelve.
深度休息的  几乎全都是快速眼动睡眠
our deep rest episodes almost exclusively comprised of REM,
我知道这个是因为他的眼睛是睁着的  因为他的眼睛太下垂了  无法闭上
and I know this because his eyes are open because they're so droopy can't close them all away,
他的眼睛像这样转动
and his eyes are going like this,
他又要昏过去了
and he's going down for the count.
没错
Yeah,
我看到一个大大的哈欠
I saw a big yawn,
好吧
OK,
所以迷幻药
so psychedelic,
首先
so first of all,
我想说清楚
I want to be very clear.
我既不是支持者
I am neither a proponent,
我也不是那种拒绝迷幻剂潜在作用的人
nor am I somebody who rejects the potential role of psychedelic.
我的确
I do,
然而
however,
认为迷幻药对那些有心理问题
think that psychedelic can be particularly hazardous for people who have preexisting psychological issues 
且没有与资格认证的医生谈过的人尤其危险
and are not working with a board certified psychiatrist or physician,
以及所有的孩子
as well as for essentially all kids.
我认为年轻的大脑基本上处于它自己的迷幻状态 很自然的就是迷幻状态
I think that the young brain is basically in its own psychedelic state and just naturally 
好了不开玩笑
and it all kidding aside.
我认为年轻的大脑非常容易受到神经可塑性的影响
I think that the young brain is so subject to neural plasticity that drugs,
而迷幻药的药性非常强
which likes psychedelic which are very powerful,
对发育中的大脑有害
can be detrimental to the developing brain.
这就是我的立场
That's just my stance.
如果有人不同意我的观点
If anyone disagrees with me,
我很乐意和你以一种礼貌的方式谈论它 我会很乐意倾听
I'd be happy to chat with you about it in a in a polite and discourse will be happy to listen 
并告诉你更多我的理由
as well as tell you more why.
我相信这是根据数据得出的
I believe that based on the data.
我说的是迷幻药
I'm mentioning psychedelic
因为很多人问
because many of you asked,
迷幻药是这样的
Here's the deal with psychedelic.
至少它们的工作原理是这样的
at least here's how they work in a nutshell,
迷幻药
psychedelic acts.
被认为可以释放感官处理的调节剂 减少过滤
were thought to unleash sensory processing and to make it less filtered.
让眼睛有很多不同的输入
We have a lot of different inputs from our eyes,
从耳朵 从鼻子 从味道
from her ears from her nose from a taste,

这些一直都是平行进入的
that you're coming in all the time in parallel,
我们有抑制这些的机制 让我们只关注
and we have mechanisms that suppress some of those and allow us to only focus on things 
视觉上正在发生的事情
that are happening visually generally,
我们没有联觉  除了一些人  基本上没有联觉
we don't have synaesthesia is unless some of us don't have synaesthesia,
我们不会以一种困惑的方式  将所见与所闻混淆在一起
we don't blend what we see with what we hear in a way that is confusing to us.
我们知道是什么发出了声音 也知道它是什么
We know what's making sounds and we know what it is.
有视觉刺激的迷幻者报告说  他们能闻到颜色
A visual stimulus on psychedelic people report being able to smell colors or two here,
或者听到树的声音
trees,

那是因为有很多感官的融合
And that's because there's a lot of sensory blending.
然而
However,
这导致了误解
that's led to the misconception.
感官融合本身就是一个创造性的过程
that sensory blending itself is a creative process.
感官融合并没有产生什么创意
There's nothing creative about sensory blending.
而创造过程的本质
There is the essence of a creative process.
是某种全新的元素构型
Is that some novel configuration of elements,
不管是钢琴上的音符  还是歌曲里的歌词
whether not it's notes on a piano or within its words,
在一页有真实数字的纸上
on a page with an honest numbers,
或者某种运动
or whether or not it's movement,
在某种程度上 这些艺术
that some way in which those art.
以某种新的方式配置算法  它们这种配置的方式
Configured in some new way that the algorithm the way in which they are configured 
对观察者产生一些意义
makes sense to the observer.
这一点很关键
And this is a key thing.
在我看来 当人们报告他们的迷幻经历时
It seems to me that when people report their psychedelic experiences,
他们更多的是在经历  而非观察
it makes a lot more sense to the person who experiences it than to the observer.
所以创造性的工作 从定义上来说 或者是通过新的方式来配置东西 使它们能适合更大的
And so creative works by definition or new ways of configuring things that lend themselves to a bigger,
更大  更好 更深刻 更新颖的 观察者角度的理解
bigger or greater or deeper or novel understanding on the part of the observer  
仅仅是感官的融合并不能实现这一点
and just sensory blending is not going to accomplish that.
这是真的  在 《细胞》 杂志上有一篇很棒的评论  关于迷幻药是如何起作用的
Now it is true and there's a great review in the journal Cell Excellent Journal about how psychedelic work and 
事实证明 迷幻药的作用不仅仅是允许更多的感官混合  它们能作用是因为
it turns out they don't just work by allowing for more sensory blending they do because of the way that 
它们激活特定的血清素受体的方式
they activate certain serotonin receptors,

它们确实有助于不同大脑区域之间的横向连接
They do lend themselves to more lateral connectivity between different brain areas,
更多新奇的联想
more novel associations.
所以原则上
So in principle,
原则上
in principle,
我应该说
I should say,
这不是一种规范的做法
not a sterling practice,
但原则上 它们确实允许大脑的不同区域  甚至是大脑的两侧
but in principle they do allow different areas of the brain may be even the two sides of the brain 
能够比正常情况下更广泛地交流
to communicate more broadly than they would normally.
所以这里面有一些元素确实可以激发创造力
So that has certain elements that speak to creativity,
但迷幻药不可能是创造力的入口
but it can't simply be the case that psychedelic or the portal to creativity,
因为创造力
because creativity,
正如我之前提到的
as I mentioned before,
不仅涉及到新奇的联想和打破时空规则
involves not just novel associations and a breaking of kind of space time rules.
它还包括重新配置元素 比如人们提出的新的时空规则  很有趣
It also involves reconfiguring things such that the new space time rule that one comes up with is interesting,
令人兴奋 而且在许多情况下会使观察者感到愉快
stimulating and in many cases delightful to the observer.
这就是为什么很多人认为迷幻药会打开可塑性  或者增加创造力
And that's why many claims that psychedelic open plasticity or the increase creativity 
但对我个人来说  这是不够的
that's not sufficient for me personally,
我好奇的是
I'm curious about.
它不只是打开了创造性思维的过程？
Does it not just open the creative thinking process?
这种新颖的构型过程
this novel configuration process,
但它是否也有助于创意作品的实施？
but does it also lend itself to the implementation of creative works,
而答案是否定的
and the answer is no.
在大多数情况下 这与创造性执行没有任何关系
In most cases it has nothing to do with creative implementation.
现在我认为可能会有那么一段时间  当然现在也有正在进行的临床试验
Now I think that there may come a time and certainly there are clinical trials that are happening now,
将迷幻药用于特定的临床目标
where psychedelic are leveraged toward particular clinical goals.
而我
And I,
我要对约翰霍普金斯大学的工作表示敬意
I want to tip my hat to the work at Johns Hopkins.
他们正在做这个实验
that's happening now,
这真的
which really lends itself.
促成了早期的初步数据和一些即将发表的论文
To the idea that early preliminary data and some of the papers that are coming out,
他们真的很棒
they're really fantastic,
这些数据表明  某些致幻剂在特定的临床环境中可能有很好的作用
showing that there may be some excellent roles for certain psychedelic in certain clinical context.
这些是在精神病医生在场的情况下进行的临床研究
These are clinical studies done with a psychiatrist present.
它可以帮助人们度过创伤中的抑郁
That is authorized to do that that can help people through depression in trauma,

我们会花很多时间讨论这个问题
And we're going to spend a lot of time talking about that,
包括那些进行研究的人
including with some of those those folks running those studies,
所以我们可以期待邀请他们来做客
so we can look forward to that.
所以   所有这些答案都是在说 不
So all of this is to say that no,
我不会用迷幻药来达到创造性状态
I don't take psychedelic to access creative states.
这不是我认为的主要作用  迷幻药的重要作用可能会表现出来
That's not where I think the major role the important role of psychedelic might show up 
对于人类来说
if its going to for humanity.
我认为它在临床中可能有这些重要的作用
I think that it may have these important roles in the clinical context,
只要它是合法和安全的
provided it's done legally and safely.
我认为
I think that.
创造的过程是一个两阶段的过程 这意味着我个人最好是通过这段时间
The creative process being a two stage process means that I am personally best served 
对概念进行非线性探索
by having this period of nonlinear exploration of concepts,
不管它是什么
whatever it is.
我下午刚好在做一件事
I happen to be working on in the afternoon,
然后我会把这件事推开 放掉
but then I'll actually shove that work.
我会把它放在一边 然后在第二天甚至是第三天  再去重新审视它 看看是否
I'll just set it aside and then I'll revisit it the next day or even the next day to see whether or not.
真的已经准备好了
The work itself is ready for deliberate,
线性实践
linear implementation,
我很想在高度集中的时候做线性实践
which I would want to do during one of these high highly focused states.
所以简单地说 当我们非常清醒警觉的时候  做线性运算
So the long and short way of saying this is that when we're very alert,
当我们更困倦更放松的时候
do linear type of operations when we tend to be more sleepy and more relaxed,
这是创意作品的第一个构思的好时机
That's when creative works can first be conceived,
但实施这些构思需要高度的警觉性
but their implementation requires high levels of alertness.
现在我们捋到了傍晚时分
Now that gets us more to the kind of late afternoon evening.
就像我之前提到的那样
now I am as I've mentioned before.
我也支持在晚上晒晒太阳
I'm a proponent of getting sunlight in the evening as well.
这是我之前没有提到的一个关键问题
This is a critical thing that I have not mentioned before.
下面我讲一下它的工作原理
Here's how it works.
现在很多人都听我说过 在一天中早起很重要
Many people now have heard me say getting light early in the day is important,
但这将提前一个人的时间
but that will advance one's clock.
它会让你第二天想要早起
It'll make you want to get up earlier the next day
 而晚上接受一点光
by getting light in the evening.
它为我实现了两件事  首先
It accomplishes two things for me First of all,
确保我不会起得太早
it make sure that I don't get up too early,
我不会在凌晨三四点醒来  因为这会改变我的生物钟
that I'm not waking up at three or four in the morning because it's going to shift my clock.
这会让它延迟一点
It's going to delay it a little bit,
所以这非常重要  如果你想让你的作息时间保持在一个正常的24小时周期
And so this is really important if you want to keep your schedule on a normal routine on a regular twenty four 
不让你的睡眠和清醒的昼夜节律飘忽不定
hour cycle and not have your circadian rhythms of sleep and wakefulness drifting all over the place,
为了优化学习和表现 你希望大脑的工作方式
and you want some predictability to how your mind is going to work in order to optimize 
有一定的可预见性
learning and performance.

然后你需要同时得到晨光和夜光   晨光会让我的时钟提前
then you need to get morning light and evening light the morning light is going to advance my clock,
让我的身体想要早起  而夜晚的光
make my system want to get up earlier in the evening,
则会让我的时钟延迟一点  所以平均来说
Light is going to delay my clock a little bit so that on average,
这预定了我的昼夜生理机制的末尾时间  我基本上每天晚上都想在相同的时间睡觉
it kind of book ends my circadian mechanisms and I'll basically want to go to sleep at more or less the same 
每天早上都想在相同的时间醒来
time each night and wake up more or less at the same time each morning.
这就是它的工作原理
That's how it works,
这非常固定的
and that's a hard,
连接机制
wired mechanism.
这不是什么主观的事情 我告诉自己这是固定连接机制
That's not some subjective thing that I tell myself that's a hard wired mechanism,
所以我们到了晚上 通常是晚上
so that gets us to the evening and generally in the evening.
我会走出去 接受一点夕阳
I'll get that light by going outside,
有时我会把人造灯光调亮
Or sometimes I'll do it by turning up artificial lights brightly,
然后我就会把它们调暗 因为
and then I'll start to dim them for the evening because,
正如我之前多次提到的
as I mentioned many times before,
我就不赘述为什么需要减少光暴露这个问题了
and I'm not going to belabor the point you want to minimize your light exposure,
特别是头顶强光照射
especially overhead bright light exposure,
不管它是蓝光还是什么
regardless of whether it's blue light or not.
晚上
In the evening,
从晚上十点到凌晨四点
from about ten pm to four pm,
有些人问
some of you asked,
等等
wait,
我以为11点到4点呢
I thought it was eleven P m to four am.

确实可以
it is,
但是晚上10点到凌晨4点更好
but ten pm to four am is even better.
只是当我最初说10点到4点的时候
It's just that when I originally said ten P M to form a M,
大多数人不可能坚持这个时刻表
people had done its impossible for most people to adhere to.
对我来说 我就开始挡住光线  留一点暗淡的光线
So for me it screens off its dim lights,
这就是为什么我能睡个好觉
and that's what favours falling asleep in a good night's sleep For me.
既然我们之前谈的是食物
Since we were talking about food earlier,
我再回顾一下之前说的
I'll just revisit a little bit of what I said before my evening.
在晚上  我会吃含有更多碳水化合物的食物  至于蛋白质
Meal tends to be more carbohydrate rich if I have proteins,
就吃比如 鸡蛋
it'll be like eggs,
鱼或鸡肉
fish or chicken,
我吃的是高碳水化合物
or something of that sort were no protein and I eat high carbohydrates,
所以我不是那种使用生酮饮食  或只吃肉那种
so I'm not one of these people that keto or high I meet only or anything like that.
记住  低碳水化合物的状态下禁食  可以提高警觉
Remember fasting in low carbohydrate states facilitate alertness.
富含碳水化合物的食物有助于镇静和困倦
Carbohydrate rich foods facilitate calmness and sleepiness.
它们会刺激色氨酸的释放  让人转向睡眠状态
They'd stimulate the release of tryptophan in the transition to sleep,
这就是为什么要在一天的晚些时候吃这些
so that's why do them late in the day.
同时
Also,
如果你在早上锻炼过
if you've exercised early in the day,
特别是如果是负重锻炼  或失重训练
especially if its weight bearing exercise or everything's weight bearing exercise,
当然了除非你是宇航员才
this was unless you're an astronaut,
还要在太空中才有失重训练
but and you're in space.
但如果你是一大早
But if you're early in the day,
进行了举重锻炼  或者长跑
exercising with weights or you're doing a long run or something,
迟早
sooner or later,
你会需要补充糖原
you need to replenish glycogen,
然后我意识到肾脏已经不行了  它们会一直吵着呀
and I realized that the kidneys does out they're going to say.

葡萄糖
you know glucose glucose,
葡萄糖可以让你补充糖原
will allow you to replenish glycogen,
我现在要戳穿这个谎言  因为我觉得需要这么做
I'm just going to call out the lie right now because I feel like doing it,
然后因为这个理论还没有被正式声明
and because I think it just hasn't been stated,
也就是说 不是每个人 但是很多人都是高脂肪肉类的支持者
which is that not everybody but a lot of the people that are proponents of high meat.
生酮饮食
keto diets,
很好
fine.
如果这是他们想做的 那没问题
That's fine if that's what they want to do,
你们应该还记得
and as you recall,
我确实在一天中会有个生统有机饮食的阶段
I do relatively keto organic diet during the day,
为了获得警觉性或禁食
two for alertness or fasting.
但很多人都能很好地补充糖原而不需要摄入糖类
But a lot of those people can replenish glycogen really well without ingesting carbohydrate 
也就是葡萄糖血管生成  并增强蛋白质合成  是因为他们的激素增强了
socalled glucose angiogenesis and enhance protein synthesis because they are hormone enhanced,
这理论已经存在一段时间了
and it's just there had been around a while.
我知道这看起来像什么
I know what this looks like.
他们要么甲状腺增强
They're either thyroid,
或激素增强 但我对此没有任何评价诊断
enhanced or hormone enhance and I dont pass any judgment.
但当你看到那些在生酮  而且看起来精力很充沛的人
But when you look at people who look amazing on keto 
他们还能在生酮中获得大量能量并补充糖原
and are able to have a lot of energy and replenish their glycogen on keto,
他们
they.
在许多情况下
In many cases,
当然不是全部
not all,
但在很多情况下 他们的激素增加是因为  他们服用了外源性激素
but in many cases their hormone enhance their taking exogenous hormones that 
使他们能够合成和修复肌肉
allow them to synthesize and repair muscle in ways that
这是那些没有服用外源性激素的人无法做到的
people who aren't taking those exogenous hormones can't.
这不仅发生在男性身上
This is not just true of the men.
顺便说一下
By the way,
这也适用于女性
this is also true of the women,
当然这个讨论
and this is a whole discussion unto itself,
可能和这个月的播客没有直接关系
probably not directly related to this month of the podcast.
所以我不介意人们使用生酮
So I don't mind that people do this.
但有一个问题是 当人们一直遵循生酮饮食直到入睡时
But one problem is when people are fought following ketogenic diets all the way through to sleep 
他们会出现睡眠问题
and they have trouble with sleep,
或者如果他们在进行长时间的禁食的时候
or they're doing long bouts of fasting,
他们会很难入睡
and they're having trouble falling asleep.
这是有道理的 因为它们的自主觉醒倾向于受到肾上腺素的释放
That makes sense is because their autonomic arousal is tilted towards epinephrine release.
去甲肾上腺素释放  以及多巴胺释放的影响
norepinephrine to release and dopamine release,
所以它们有很多精力
so they have a lot of energy.
但是他们很难平静下来  并进入深度睡眠
but they have a hard time calming down and getting into deep sleep.
我倾向于用碳水化合物达到那种状态
I tend to achieve that state using carbohydrates,
它还能补充糖原
and it also replenishes glycogen.
再说一次
So again,

我不是想引来喷子
I'm not trying to draw any fire,
但如果有人来喷
but if I do,
我很乐意再和你谈谈这件事
I'd be happy to have a conversation about all that again.
没有偏见
No judgment,
但我认为  大多数人都没有意识到其他的一些变量
but I think that most people out there are not aware of some of the other variables.
记住
Remember,
好的科学是需要分离变量的
good science is about isolating variables,
所以通常我们在社交媒体上看到的  是被呈现在我们面前的单个变量
and so oftentimes what we're seeing in social media is we're getting presented single variables,
我们没有看到被操纵的其他变量  没有完整背景
and we're not seeing the full context of the other variables that are being manipulated so.
我晚上吃意大利面 米饭和蔬菜之类的食物
I eat pasta and rice and vegetables and things like that in the evening.
同时
Also,
我发现我可能是最后一批想到这点 并说出来的人
I just find maybe I'm becoming one of the last people that does that,
尽管我不希望真的是这样
although I hope not,
我希望还有像我一样的人
I hope there are others out there like me,
但是我从所有的文献中都知道  碳水化合物不仅能做到这一点
but I just from all the literature speaks to the fact that carbohydrates not only do that,
但它们也有助于维持健康的甲状腺功能
but they also help maintain healthy thyroid function,

这就是我的偏见
So that's my bias.
这就是我的工作
That's what I do.
我晚上不喝咖啡因
I do avoid caffeine and one in the evening.
我确实服用补充剂
I do take supplements,
我很乐意找个时间把我吃过的完整的补品清单写出来
and I'll be happy at some point to put out the complete list of supplements that I put out.
我会po出来
Take out there.
但总的来说
But in general,
这些是我日常所做的核心事情  它们与你们一直以来问的很多问题有关
these are the core things that I do and they relate to a lot of the questions that you've been asking over time.
接下来我要讲的科学数据是非常重要的
The next pieces of scientific data that I'm going to describe is a very important piece of scientific data 
它有助于我们理解如何优化大脑 获取睡眠
for sake of understanding how to optimize your brain and access sleep.
它还可以帮助避免很多焦虑问题
It also can help avoid a lot of anxiety issues,
这些都和Charles Eisler博士的数据有关
and these relate to data from Charles Eisler.
他是哈佛医学院Chucks Eisler实验室的医学博士
Dr is an MD Chucks Eisler lab at Harvard Medical School.
他在哈佛医学院运营这个睡眠实验室很长一段时间了  他们做的工作非常出色
He's run a sleep lab out of Harvard Medical School for a long time now does very impressive work,
他的研究表明 清醒状态下生物钟的峰值输出
and what he has shown is that the peak output of the circadian clock for wakefulness,
换句话说
in other words,
我们清醒的高峰和抑制睡眠的信号  实际上发生在一天的晚些时候
the peak of our wakefulness and the suppression of the sleep signal actually happens very late in the day.
所以  我们在醒来前有一个体温变化的低谷 体温最低点
So we have this trough of activity and body temperatures lowest right before waking than as we wake up,
醒来后  我们的体温会上升 直到下午  还会继续上升
our body temperature goes up and into the afternoon it continues to go up up up up up,
然后在晚上和睡觉时间下降
and then it tends to fall in the evening and towards bedtime.
但是有一些肽和其他物质  会有一个短暂的释放
But there's a brief blip of release of peptides and other substances from thee,
从大脑的睡眠中心中的视交叉上核中  释放
from the sleep centers in the brain and the super charismatic nucleus that sleep centers.
这是视前区 如果你想知道这个具体术语  视前区
That's pre optic area that if you want to look that up this pre optic area,
离昼夜生物钟标志着警觉和清醒的顶峰很近
not far from the circadian clock that signals the peak of alertness and wakefulness.
大约在睡前一小时
About an hour before bedtime.

这真的很奇怪
that's really weird,
但很多人上床后
but a lot of people get into bed,
他们准备睡觉 但他们完全清醒 他们认为这是一件不自然的事情
They're ready to go to sleep and they are wide awake and they think this is an unnatural thing.
或者觉得自己有什么问题
or there's something wrong with them.
实际上不是这样的
and actually it's not this.
我确信
It's believed again.
当然我没有参与
I wasn't consulted.
实验理论的设计阶段
The design phase,
但这是公众认可的
but this is it once believed,
这是一种信号 有助于人类开始收集资源
is a signal that is helpful to human beings to start gathering up resources 
确保自己能睡一晚上
and securing themselves for a night's sleep,
在人类历史上
during which we you know historically,
我们很容易受到其他人类和动物的攻击
were very vulnerable to attack from other humans and farm animals and so forth,
所以想要四处奔波  打扫厨房或者整理东西的欲望
and so that desire to run around and clean the kitchen or organized things 
或者只是一种晚上内心的焦虑
or just a general feeling of internal anxiety late in the evening.
这是一个自然的释放点 会在大约45到60分钟后自然消失
That's a natural blip that naturally passes after about forty five to sixty minutes.

人们通常会在这个时候开始担心  第二天还有事情要做
that's often the time when people start stressing about the fact that they have something to do the next day,
他们担心睡不好会引发一系列的问题
and they worry about not being able to sleep in a can cascade into a whole set of things.
所以我每天做的另一件事是
So another thing that I do throughout my day is,
我知道这天早些时候  如果我下午很清醒
I know that early day I'm going to be alert afternoon.
我到了晚上可能会有点困
I'm going to be kind of sleepy and then as the evening comes around,
除了我正在做的其他事情
in addition to doing all the other things I'm doing,
我预计自己会有一个警觉性和活跃度的高峰
I anticipate a peak in alertness and activity,
然后我并不担心这个
and I don't worry about it.
我可能用这个时间段  来为第二天做准备
I use that perhaps to get organized for the next day,
但基本上我只是简单安排一下
but basically I just go through it,
我可能做一些很平淡的事情
so I'm going to do anything that can be very mundane task,
比如打扫  或其他几乎不需要费力的事情
like cleaning or things that require almost zero effort,
这可能也说明了我打扫卫生的能力
and that probably speaks to my cleaning abilities too.
但事实是
But the fact of the matter is,
我们不能就这么
we don't just go.
慢慢地睡过去
drift off into sleep.
睡觉前  是会有一段时间的警觉性 我希望从认知上了解这一点对大家有所帮助
There's this blip of alertness right before sleep that I hope just cognitively knowing about will be helpful to people,
这又引出了另一个我认为非常重要的主题
and that raises yet another theme that I think is going to be very important,
就是
which is.
生理机制  比如警觉性的变化 或者使用呼吸工具
Physiological mechanisms like these changes in alertness or using breathing tool something 
来改变自主觉醒的水平  这些我们以后会讲到
we'll talk about in future episodes to shift our levels of autonomic arousal.
这些都是具体的生物现象
Those are concrete biological phenomena,
禁食也是
so is fasting.
禁食会提高警觉性  咖啡因也是如此
Fasting will increase alertness that way so is caffeine,
并不是每个人对咖啡因的敏感程度都一样
not everybody susceptible to caffeine for the same degree or others,
但这是一种生理机制  我们知道受体在哪  我们知道它们被称为配体
but it's a physiological mechanisms we know the receptors we know the ligands as they're called,
会与受体结合
which bind to the receptors.
我们知道有皮质醇和肾上腺素的机制
We know the mechanisms that have all cortisol and epinephrine.
这些都是我个人在学习中尝试和利用的东西
Those are the sorts of things that I personally try and leverage toward my learning,
来优化我的大脑和活动
an optimisation of my brain and my activity.
在一天的早些时候进行体育锻炼活动
Doing physical activity early in the day,
会给我们一个更长的醒来信号的
tends to give us a longer duration.
持续时间  旨在加速早起
Wake up signal intends to accelerate waking up early in the day,
所以在白天很晚的时候锻炼  有时会导致人们难以入睡
so I'm working out late in the day can sometimes cause people to have trouble falling asleep.
因为它会延迟你的生物钟
It will also phase delay.
这样你第二天  就会想要晚一点醒来
You make it so that you want to wake up later the next day.
这不只是因为你累了
It's not just because you're tired,
这是因为你通过活动和温度  改变了生物钟
it's because you've shifted your clock with activity and temperature.
很多人问我关于可塑性的主观方法
Many people ask me about subjective tools for plasticity.
比如  视觉化？
What about visualization you know?
我们能想象自己在做一个特定的活动吗？
Can we just imagine doing a particular activity?
这会帮助我们在这项活动中做得更好吗？
Will that help us get better at that activity?
有证据表明 可视化可以做到这一点
There's some evidence that visualization can do that.
这是真的
it's true,
但这里有一个重要的区别
but here's the important distinction,
这也是为什么我个人不怎么有意识地想象
and here's why I personally don't do much deliberate visualization.
首先
First of all,
当我处于昏昏欲睡的状态时 我就会发挥我最好的能力来想象事物
I get my best ability or achieve my best ability to visualize things when I'm in kind of a sleepy state.
我不知道为什么
I don't know why,
但这就是我能让我的大脑
but that's what I'm able to direct my brain torch,
点燃内心的可视化
internal visualization.
我闭上眼睛
With my eyes closed,
一般情况下
and generally,
我会睡着 我不记得之前想过的任何事情
I fall asleep and I can't remember anything that I was thinking about before some people 
许多年前罗杰·谢泼德和他伙伴所做的工作
and the work that was done many years ago by Roger Shepherd and by others,
罗杰当时在斯坦福大学
Rodger was at Stanford.
但是其他实验室也做了这个
But and other labs have done this to,
当然
of course,
他们的大脑中有物体在进行物理旋转
of rotating objects physically in their mind as a way of improving or looking 
以此来提高或观察空间计算的速度等等
at the speed of of spatial calculations and so forth.
有些人很擅长想象
Some people are very good at visualization.
他们可以闭上眼睛 看到物体 然后有意地将其旋转
they can close their eyes and they could just see objects and rotate them deliberately,
但很多人  比如我
A lot of people like me.
当我们开始这样做的时候
When we start doing that,
我们很容易走神
our mind drifts too easily.
但我想  在清醒状态下我是一个理性的专注者
but I'd like to think I'm a reasonably focus person in the waking state.
所以可视化
so visualization,
很有趣 因为我认为人们很容易被这种想法所吸引
it's interesting because I think people are very attracted to the idea that
他们只需要在脑子里想这个事情 然后就能做得更好
they can just think about something and then get better at it that way.
如果你可以用形象化的方式将事物线性化 这可能是对的
and it's probably true if you can be very linear in the way that you visualize things.
我就不重复了
So I won't repeat that.
我认为想象可视化确实有一定的力量
I think visualization does have certain power 
如果你能保持线性 深思熟虑 专注于想象
if you can remain very linear and deliberate and focused in the visualization.
但是很多像我一样的人很难闭上眼睛
But many people like myself who are challenged with maintaining that linear focus with eyes closed 
保持线性的注意力
and in visualization,
那么他们不会从想象中得到什么
they don't get much out of visualization.
我认为有关表现的数据  确实支持了这一点
And I think the date on performance really supports that.
有一些例子
Now there are examples where,
例如
for instance,
人们损伤了一侧肢体 然后他们会锻炼完好的那一侧肢体  或者没有受伤的那一侧肢体
people injure one limb and then they will exercise the intact limb or that the non injured limb rather 
同时他们会想象另一侧的肢体
and they will visualize the opposite limb.
有时甚至还会用到镜子  假设我的左肢受伤了
Sometimes there's even the use of mirror boxes so that let's say my left limb is injured.
我会保持右肢活动
I'm maintaining activity with my right limb,
但我会用一面镜子
but I'm using a mirror box,
镜像中看起来 我的左肢工作得很好
So it looks like my left limb is working well.
是的
yes,
有一些观点确实表明
there's some top down or you know or feedback mechanisms that support the idea 
自上而下的反馈机制可以支持受伤的肢体更快的康复
that the injured limb can rehabilitate more quickly,

但这些都是相当复杂的计划
But those are fairly elaborate schemes.
不是说家里有面镜子就能做这件事
These aren't the kinds I don't have mirror boxes around my house.
我想  这是特殊情况
I think these are our specialized circumstances.
这有点像我们在新闻上看到的例子  某某中风了
There are a little bit like the examples that we see in the news where Oh so and so has a stroke 
然后自发地说一种新的语言
and then spontaneously speaks a new language.
我不知道他想表达的答案是什么
I don't know what the answer to that is.
研究表明 大脑具有典型的联想网络 这些网络在可以被释放时受到抑制
It shows that the brain has associative networks that are typically suppressed in those can be unleashed.
但你肯定不想故意让自己中风 来揭开其中的一些问题
But you certainly don't want to go out and give yourself a stroke deliberately to try and unmask some skill.
因为就是没有
Because there's just no,
没有一种具体的方法  可以让你真正知道
there's no concrete way to go about that in a way that you could really know that 
你可以如何去抵消中风的有害影响
you were going to offset the detrimental effects of the stroke.
事实上
In fact,
我认为
I think,
这是个糟糕的主意
would be a terrible idea,
我想我要描述的是一个问题  “我不知道半夜醒来是特有的还是正常的”
so I think what I'm trying to describe is how a typical I don't know if I'm typical or normal,
我的意思是
I mean,
除非你们被告知说这是正常的  一般你们都觉得自己不正常
They've been told otherwise it's certainly not normal,
但就我安排生活的方式而言
but in terms of the way that I structure my day,
我认为这很正常
I think that's normal.
这是很正常的
That's pretty normal.
我总是在大概
I tend to wake up right around.
我不知道在早上5点30到7点之间醒来
I don't know somewhere between five thirty and seven a m,
取决于我前一晚做了什么
depending on what I've been doing the night before.
我通常在10点30到11点左右睡觉
I tend to go to sleep somewhere around ten thirty eleven.
我倾向于在早上进行一轮学习 那个阶段我可以非常专注地努力工作
I tend to have one bout in the morning where I can do really focused hard work,
我可以激活go通路 同时也激活nogo通路 这样我就能真正集中注意力
and I can really activate the go pathway while also activating the nogo pathway so that I can really stay focused,
但我也依赖一些工具
but I rely on some tools.
下午有一段时间 我会觉得很困 然后就想
I have a period in the afternoon where I get sleepy and got out of it like,
我想大多数人 包括我 都意识到在这种稍微昏昏欲睡的状态下
I think most people and I tend to come out of that with an up recognizing the opportunity of that 
有机会进行创造性的工作 用新颖的方式思考问题
slightly sleepy state for creative work and for thinking about things in novel ways,
我一天会接受好几次光照
I get light a couple times a day.
我白天吃低碳水化合物食物
I low carb during the day and I eat.
我不说是高碳水
I don't say hi,
但是晚上吃比白天更高碳的食物  比如淀粉  这样我就可以睡觉了
But you know higher carbon eat starches in the evening that so in a way I can sleep,
然后我会预计到下午晚些时候
and then I really anticipate that late afternoon,
有一个峰值和警觉性
peak and alertness.
抱歉说错了  晚上的峰值
Excuse me late night peak,
和警觉性 很多人误认为是失眠或很难入睡
and alertness that many people confuse for insomnia or challenges when  
但实际上他们的生理周期很正常
actually they're really quite normal in their circadian cycle.
然后如果一切顺利  我就睡着了
And then I fall asleep and if all goes well,
我睡大概四五个小时
I stay asleep for four or five hours.
通常情况下
Typically,
3-4小时
it's three or four,
然后我会醒过来
and then I wake up.
我和大多数人一样 会在半夜醒来
I think I'm like most people I wake up during the middle of the night.
不过有一件事  我认为大家讨论得不多
Now one thing that I don't think has been discussed a lot,
但我在斯坦福睡眠实验室的一位同事告诉我 每一个半小时左右 我们都会醒来
but one of my colleagues at the Stanford Sleep Lab tells me is that every hour and a half or so we all wake up.
你们有些人甚至可能会四处看看
Some of you even look around,
信不信由你
Believe it or not,
然后继续睡觉 但你却不会记得
and go right back to sleep and you don't recognize it.
在睡眠中定期醒来是常态
Waking up periodically during sleep is the norm.
这是正常的
It is not abnormal.
我不知道为什么这个问题没有得到更深入的讨论
I don't know why this hasn't been discussed more prominently,
我醒来的时候
I tend to wake up,
如果有强光从百叶窗射进来
and if there is a bright light coming through the blinds,
或者如果楼上有噪音
or if there's some noise upstairs,
或者科斯特洛的打呼声音特别大
I've Costello storing particularly loud,
我可能会起床
I might get up,
去下洗手间
I might go use the restroom,
我可能会
I might.

拿起一本书 在昏暗的光线下阅读一会儿
pick up a book and read under low light or something,
然后我通常会再次入睡 然后又会在正常的时间醒来
and then I generally fall back asleep and wake up typical time for me again.
5:30到7点左右醒来
five thirty, seven a m in the morning,
半夜醒来这件事情
this waking up in the middle of the night.
嗯
saying,
正如我在播客一开始提到的 并不一定是不正常的
as I mentioned at the beginning of the podcast episode today is not necessarily abnormal.
它可能反映的是人类的真实时间
What it probably reflects is that the real time,
意思是  我应该睡觉的时间可能接近8点
meaning the time that I should go to sleep is probably closer to eight o'clock.
午夜(12点) 这个词本来就是 午夜 的意思
The word midnight was literally supposed to mean midnight.
意味着 之前的人类都应该在日落时睡觉
We many meaning all of us were meant to go to sleep and wake up with the rise you know 
和日出一起醒来
with the setting and the rising of the sun.
我们知道这一点  是因为科罗拉多大学的一项很棒的研究
And we know this because this beautiful study from University of Colorado,
他们把试验者带到野外  通过重置他们的生物钟
where they took people out into the wilderness to reset their circadian clocks by way of you.
通过测量褪黑激素和皮质醇
measured by way of of melatonin and cortisol,
他们让试验者
and they had them.
完全打乱原本的光线时间
they were completely out of whack for mix,
看屏幕 熬夜
interacting with screens and staying up too late,

他们让受试者每天看日出和日落
And they basically had them view the sunrise and view the sunset each evening,
几乎所有的学生 不是所有
and almost all of them not all of those students.
那些作息时间很自然的人 他们想在日落时睡觉
but all of them got onto a schedule where they naturally wanted to go to sleep at sunset 
在日出前后或日出前醒来
and wake up around sunrise or just before sunrise,
即使他们回到正常的人造光线环境中  还是保持了这个时间表
even when they were brought back into a normal artificial light setting.
所以我认为这是一种自然的模式 而我们现代人只是用人造光改变了它
So I think that's the natural pattern and we've just deviated from it with artificial lights,
所以在凌晨三四点醒来并不一定意味着你有什么毛病
so waking up at three am or four am doesn't necessarily mean that there's something screwed up about you it,
或者有焦虑症之类的
or that you know you have anxiety or something,
尽管可能
although you might.
这可能意味着你应该早点上床睡觉
What it likely means is that you were supposed to go to bed much earlier.
由于自主神经系统的这种不对称性
and because of this asymmetry in the autonomic nervous system where it's much easier for us to 
我们更容易推迟睡觉时间 而不是加速提前起床时间
push and to delay our sleep time than it is to accelerate our wakeup time.
换句话说
In other words,
你想要在派对上待着会更容易
it's easier to stay up and hang out at the party,
即使你不想待在那里 也比你睡熟疲惫的时候醒来好得多
even if you don't want to be there than it is to wake up when you are exhausted in your fast asleep.
大多数人都是熬夜到很晚才上床睡觉
Most people are pushing through into the late hours of the evening and night and going to bed much later than 
比基因自然的入睡时间要晚得多
they naturally would want to.
所以我自己也是不想在晚上8点就上床睡觉
and so I personally don't want to go to bed at eight pm.
晚上8点到11点之间还会发生很多很棒的事
A lot of good things happened between eight P m and eleven P m.
我想要享受这些时光 我熬过了晚上的时间
And so I want to enjoy those and I pushed through the evening hours.
但结果是
But as a consequence,
我的褪黑激素耗尽了 我的褪黑激素释放量在凌晨3 4点左右就开始消退
I'm running out of melatonin in my melatonin release is basically subsided by about three or four am.
所以我醒来是有道理的
and so it makes sense that I would wake up.
我不服用褪黑激素的原因  在之前的节目中已经讨论过了
I don't take melatonin For reasons discussed in previous episodes,
我确实依赖甘氨酸镁
I do rely on things like magnesium,
以及苏糖酸镁
glycate or magnesium.
还有茶氨酸
threonate things like the theanine.
不是说你们都要吃这些
not seeing any of you need to take those.
这些只是我自己为了促进睡眠而服用的东西
That's just what I happen to take in order to facilitate my sleep,
这对我很有好处
and it's been of great benefit to me.
如果我半夜醒来感到焦虑
If I wake up in the middle of the night and I'm anxious,
不管什么原因  在我脑子里循环着什么事情
for whatever reason in my mind is looping,
我会有几条规矩
I have a couple of rules.
一个是
one is,
我不相信我在半夜醒来时想到的任何事
I don't trust anything I think about when I wake up in the middle of the night,
什么事都不信
any of it.
除非我做了一个很惊艳的梦 我想把它写下来
unless I've had a magnificent dream and I want to write it down.
我偶尔会这么做
I'll do that every once in a while.
通常情况下
Typically,
当我之后再翻回去读的时候
when I go back and read it,
它一点也不惊艳了
it's not at all magnificent.
我不记得在我的梦中想出过任何真正奇妙 让我久久不能忘怀的东西
I can't ever remember coming up with anything really fantastic in one of my dreams  
也没有实现过
that stuck with me or that I implemented.
我不太相信发生在生物钟凌晨的那种想法
I don't really trust the kind of thinking that happens in those wee hours of the circadian cycle.
对我来说
For me,
对我来说什么都没发生
there's just nothing either for me,
非常有创意或者值得线性执行
terribly creative or worth linear implementation at that time.
但有一件事很有帮助 那就是有时做一些非睡眠深度休息的方法
But one thing that has been very helpful is to sometimes do one of these non sleep deep rest protocols 
作为一种重新进入睡眠的方式
as a way to go back into sleep.
催眠应用我之前提到过迈克尔·瑟雷网站reverie health上的一些音频脚本
So a hypnosis app by whereas some of the scripts by Michael Seeley that I've mentioned before,
或瑜伽休息术之类的方法
or the reverie health or a yoga near a protocol,
这些对我来说非常有用 帮助我在半夜停止循环思考
Those for me have been very useful at helping me turn off kind of looping thinking in the middle of the night 
重新入睡
and fall back asleep.
在刚才回顾我的一天的安排的时候
In reviewing my schedule for you just as a context 
有一些实施特定类型的工具来优化学习的场景
for how to implement certain types of tools for optimizing learning,
大家应该有点印象的是上午有90分钟的学习
realize that it gives the impression that there's a ninety minute bout of learning and work in the morning 
和工作下午有90分钟的创造性工作
and then a ninety minute bout of creative type work in the afternoon,
就是这样
and that's it.
中间有很多时间
There are a lot of hours in between,
当然
of course,
我想说清楚
and I just want to be very clear.
我的那些时间都被
Those hours for me are occupied by pretty.
其他一些也不是平淡的任务
I'm not mundane tasks,
都是随机的事情所占据
but things that are kind of random.
比如说回复电子邮件  参加zoom会议
Those are things like email were tending to zoom,
与同事和学生的会议
meetings or meeting with colleagues and students,
诸如此类的事情
and things of that sort.
我有时会为了自己的消遣而读书
I sometimes we'll read just for sake of my own enrichment.
我提到了那两个90分钟的学习周期
I mentioned those two ninety minute bouts,
因为在这两个90分钟里
because those are the two ninety minutes where I'm trying to 
我试图扩展我已经拥有的心智能力
expand on the mental capacities that I already have.
那两段时间里 我真的在努力伸展和发展  让我能够条件反射地做的事情
There's really where I'm trying to stretch and grow what I'm able to do on a regular basis reflexively.
所以我想强调的是 我的一整天不只是由两个90分钟的学习组成
So I want to emphasize that the whole day doesn't just consist of those two ninety minute belts.
这不是我所有的日程安排
That's not the way my schedule works,
我的生活也不是这样安排的
and that's not the way my lifestyle is arranged,
这也很幸运 因为我也很享受其他的事情
which is fortunate because I enjoy all those other things as well.
所以对于你们中的很多人来说  在学校  或者有家庭的陪伴  或者其他的事情
and so for many of you out there who are in school or have a family demands or other demands.
关键是在90分钟左右的大脑优化时段
The key is to slot in those brain optimization segments of about ninety minutes,
一个或两个
one or two,
或者一天中有更多次
or maybe more per day,
你要把这些学习  放到任何你能放的时间段里
you're trying to slop those in wherever you can,
在你的其他义务和你需要做的事情中挤出时间来学习
amidst your other obligations and things that you need to do.
你可以用一种从你的生物学角度出发  一种随机应变的方式来做这件事
But you want to do that in an intelligent way that's anchored to your biology,
然后你们可以尝试做一些我今天讲过的事情
and then you want to do a number of things which I've talked about today.
为了优化这些学习时间 最大限度地利用它们
In order to optimize those sessions to get the most out of them.
所以我们总结一下
So as we round up,
我再次承认
I acknowledged that once again,
我已经涵盖了大量与如何优化学习和大脑变化
I've covered a huge range of topics related to how to optimize learning and brain change 
以及本质上的精神表现相关的主题
and essentially mental performance.
我说过 在某些生物机制的背景下
And I've said that in the context of some biological mechanism,
比如基底神经节  go-nogo通路  昼夜自主系统
like the basal ganglia go nogo pathways to the circadian autonomic system 
以及食物和禁食之间的一些关系
and some of the relationship between food and fasting,
以及在清醒或困倦时吃特定类型的食物
and particular types of food in alertness or sleepiness.
线性的注意力以及计划的实施 最好是在注意力重点突出的状态下做
Linear focus and strategy implementation is best served by highlight states,
虽然不需要特别警觉  还有 创造力的状态 至少是第一阶段
although not to alert and how creative states at least the first phase of creativity,
是一种创造性的安排 是一种头脑风暴阶段
which is the creative arrangement kind of brainstorming stage 
是由放松状态甚至是轻微的睡意来主导的
is supported by states of relaxation or even slightly sleepy.
但是创造性的实施是一个线性的 有重点的 深思熟虑的过程
But the creative implementation is a very linear and focused and deliberate process,
很像高度集中的状态
much like the highly focused state.
然后我描述了我是如何做这些事情  只是给你们一个场景 既然很多人都想知道
Then I described I described how I do these things that just to give you a context a lot of you ask for it.
你知道我做了什么来把它设置在一个特定的场景下
You know what I do in order to set it within a context,
但这绝不是僵化的时间和做事的方式
but by no means are these rigid times and ways of doing things.
可以说 我的工作是有生理规律的
I think it's fair to say that what I do has a circadian logic.
它也有非常具体的生物机制的基础
It also has grounding in biological mechanisms that are very concrete,
我们已经知道了其中的细胞 机制和神经递质
that we know the cells and mechanisms and neurotransmitters,
而其中的一些则开拓到了  一些新兴的方向
and then some of them are a little bit headed out into what we would call kind of emerging.
或者
Or you know,
我不想说最尖端
I don't wanna say cutting edge,
但也许是前沿的神经科学  比如试图理解创造力等等
but maybe your front edge of what neuroscience is trying to understand about creativity and so forth.
这些领域最近才开始逐渐明朗
Those are areas that are just now coming to some clarity,
当然还有很多工作要做 你们自己也有很多不同的方式来安排日程
and there certainly is still a lot more work to do and a lot of different ways to arrange one's routine.
但希望我所描述的工具和实践对您有用
But hopefully the tools and practices I've described will be useful to you.
我想说的是 很多人问我关于具体工具和实践的问题
I want to mention that a lot of people ask me about specific tools and practices.
比如会问
They asked me out.
Wim Hof的冰人呼吸法  问冰浴
Wim Hof Breathing about ice bars,
之前我已经讲过一些关于冰浴的知识  关于双音节拍之类的
have talked a little bit about ice baths before I think in cold exposure about binaural beats and things though sort,
我认为观察任何调节或测量神经系统的工具的方法
I think the way to look at any tool to modulate or measure the nervous system is asked 
都要看它是否会使你的自主觉醒状态上升或下降
whether or not it's going to move you up or down the state of autonomic arousal.
不管它能让你更警觉还是更冷静
Whether that's can make you more alert or more calm,
更专注或更少专注
more focused or less focus.
这是
That's kind of the.
是我们需要思考的两条轴  有时你想要比现在更警觉
The two axes here is that we need to think about sometimes you want to be more alert than you are,
事实上 像冷水澡
and indeed things like cold showers,
冰浴
ice baths,
一个氧气充足的
a super oxygenation,
冰人呼吸法
Wim Hof.
会提高你的警觉性水平
Type breathing will bring your level of alertness up.
每种方法都有一些注意事项  你需要仔细阅读并理解这些注意事项
There are some cautionary notes associated with each of those you need to read and understand those  
每个人都不一样
cautionary notes for yourself everybody's different,
其中一些在特定条件下会带来特定的危险
and some of those carries certain dangers under certain conditions.
在其他时候则非常安全
Others have huge margins for safety.
冰浴通常能让你清醒
An ice bath generally wakes you up.
洗个热水澡通常能让你的平静下来
A warm or hot bath generally calms you down binaural beats.
双音节拍则没有大量的数据和高质量的同行评议期刊
There aren't a lot of data and quality peer reviewed journals.
我确实花了不少力气去找
I did put in the effort to go search it out.
有一些双耳节拍是听频率有细微差别的声音
There are a few binaural beats are listening to frequencies of sound that slightly differ.
两只耳朵偏置
offset for the two ears.
研究表明 它可以改变大脑的特定状态 你会注意到今天
It has been shown can shift the brain in particular states you'll notice today.
我并没有真正谈论Alpha Theta
I didn't really talk about Alpha Theta,
或伽玛节奏
or Gamma rhythms.
我自己在回顾文献的时候
I personally in reviewing the literature,
我并不认为说alpha波对某些东西好
I don't think it's fair to say that alpha states are great for aix and theta.
Theta波对另一些方面好
Estates are great for Y,
除此之外
and besides,
我们大多数人每天在家里 在工作的地方
most of us are walking around our homes in our workplaces geared up to .
又不会真的带着脑电图机走来走去
EEG machines are with wires down below our school,
所以我们不知道自己什么时候处于各个脑波状态
so we don't know when we're in those states anyway.
我认为判断一个人是否清醒的主观判断是他是否冷静
I think the subjective reading of whether or not one is alert were calm 
以及这种清醒或冷静是否符合目标
and whether or not that alertness or calmness matches the goal.
或者是我们在学习这方面想要达到的目标
or that thing that we're trying to achieve in terms of learning,
包括睡眠
including sleep.
这些都是我们都能拥有的最有价值的内部工具
is the most valuable internal tool and recognition that we can all have?
换句话说
In other words,
如果我想保持清醒警觉
if I want to be very alert,
我必须非常警觉 如果我已经精疲力竭了
I need to be very alert and I'm exhausted.
也许我应该用一些工具来唤醒自己
There might be tools that I should use to wake up.
这也可能说明了一个事实 那就是我们前一天晚上可能没有睡好
It might also speak to the fact that we might not have slept as well as I could ever shoot of the night before.
所以这实际上是关于我们在自主觉醒量表上的位置
So it's really about a match between where we are on that autonomic arousal scale 
和我们想要达到的目标之间是否匹配
and what we're trying to achieve.
事实上
And indeed,
会有很多工具
there are going to be a lot of tools,
包括补品和其他处方药以及其他能帮助我们
including supplements and other prescription drugs and things that can help move us along.
在连续的自主觉醒上前进
their autonomic continuum,
朝着更加清醒的方向
up toward more alertness,
或者更平静的方向
or toward more calmness.
最终
Ultimately,
这是关于调整警觉和平静的具体类型的学习和活动
it's about tailoring that alertness and calmness to the specific types of learning and activities  
你要去做并执行
that you are going to do and perform.
这是互惠的
and it's reciprocal,
也就是说 像早起锻炼这样的一些活动
meaning some of those activities like exercise early in the day will 
会提高你的自主觉醒和警觉性水平
increase your level of autonomic arousal and alertness.
某些食物会让你清醒
Certain foods will tend to wake you up.
有些食物会让你更加困倦 食物的份量和进食的时间段也是一个因素
Certain foods will tend to make you more sleepy and the volume of food and the timing of food is a factor.
同时
Also,
整个环境中有很多变量
so it's a huge parameter space at the huge of variables,
其中的影响
the impacts,
不管我们是否感觉良好  表现良好
whether or not we're feeling well performing well,
很好地学习  或者学不好
learning great or not learning great,
关键是你要成为你自己身体系统的观察者
and the key thing is to become an observer of your own system in what works for you,
并认识到有两种类型的工具  可以优化大脑的学习表现
and to recognize that there are two bins of tools for optimizing learning in brain performance.
一种是固定在生物机制中的工具
One are tools that are really anchored in biological mechanism,
我们现在可以确定这些内容了
and we are certain of what those are.
我已经讲过其中的一些
And I've talked about some of those,
另一方面
the other,
更主观的工具
the more subjective tools.
对你们中的一些人来说
For some of you.
有的时候可视化  想象可能对你们有些人非常有用
A visualization might work terrifically well for some of you.
比如一首歌能唤醒你 因为它对你有某种意义
One song might really wake you up because of the associations you have with it,
对我来说 这可能会选驱使我离开房间的歌  因为我不喜欢它
and for me I might just you know it might propel me from the room because I don't like it 
或者它可能会让我睡着
or it might put me to sleep.
当然
But of course,
音量几乎对所有人都通用
volume is kind of a universal.
大声的音乐容易把人吵醒
Loud music tends to wake people up.
轻音乐往往不会把他们吵醒
Soft music doesn't tend to wake them up quite as much.
所以今天的部分内容是让你们以科学的方式
So part of today is really getting you to think about in a scientific way 
以结构化的方式  来思考这些固定的因素
in a structured way about the non negotiable elements,
也就是每24小时就会有更清醒的一段时间
which are that you're going to have a period of every twenty four hour cycle when you tend to be more awake  
一段更沉睡的时间
and a period when you tend to be more asleep 
如何去平衡这些  这样你就不用在你非常困的时候  艰难地起床
and how to leverage those who are not fighting an uphill battle to wake up when you're actually I would want
也不用在你自然最清醒的时候才去睡觉
to be and should be sleepy and not trying to go to sleep when you are naturally going to be most awake,
所以很多都是围绕着那些生物的核心机制
so a lot of it is really anchors back to those core mechanisms of biology 
然后你可以开始在食物和补剂的不同方法上分层
and then you start layering on the different protocols of food and supplementation,
我认为重要的是要认识到  有些人天生更喜欢
And I think it's important to recognize that some people are just more go,
做事情
go go,
动力十足
go go and no go.
而有些人则更平静
And some people are just calmer and have a harder time.
想要再一项活动中投入行动更加艰难  这是我们与生俱来的
Getting into action in an activity is just the way that we're wired.
有些人的自主神经系统更倾向于副交感神经的平静状态
Some of us have autonomic nervous systems that are more geared towards parasympathetic calm states.
而我喜欢斗牛犬的原因
When the reasons I love bulldogs,
不仅仅是我的斗牛犬 它们是非常冷静的动物
not just my bulldog is that they are very calm animals.
事实上
In fact,
除非有什么需要回应 否则它们不会自发地做出动作
they make no spontaneous movements unless there's something to respond to.
一种令人难以置信的放松状态
and I find that incredibly relaxing.
其他动物如比特犬
Other animals like pit bulls,
我也很喜欢  因为它们总是摇尾巴
who I also really like and enjoy in other species their tails always wagging,
在任何时候  都有一个可以移动到下一个位置  活力十足
and that there are always in a position to make a movement at any any second.
因为它们倾向于在非常高的自主觉醒水平上
because they tend to ride at pretty high levels of autonomic arousal.
当你说要去散步的时候 它们很快就跑过来
They pop up really quickly when you say it's time to go for a walk.
科斯特洛就一步一步
Castella does at one limb.
慢悠悠地挪过来 有时都不管你  直接回去睡觉   所以人也是会这样
A time and sometimes you just goes back to sleep and so that there are people like that too,
所以你必须知道你在哪里 你想要追求的目标是什么
and so you have to know where you are and what particular goals you are trying to pursue.
作为最后的总结
As a final closure to this,
今天我想强调的是
I want to emphasize that today,
像往常一样
as always,
我一直努力做到准确
I've strived to be accurate.
我确信如果我犯了错误
I'm sure if I made mistakes,
你们肯定会指出来 我很感激  如果确实说错了  我会发表更正声明
some of you will pointed out and I appreciate that now post a correction if we agree that I indeed misspoke,
我确实会说错很多
were decided something.
但我并没有讲得很完整
But by no means was I exhaustive,
可能对你们一部分人来说已经足够消化了
a man might have exhausted some of you,
但信息并不全面
but the information wasn't exhaustive,
也就是说 我不可能涵盖
meaning there's no way that I could cover all the ways in which 
优化学习和表现的所有方法
we optimize or can optimize learning and performance.
我想我们已经谈到了一些我希望你们能从中发现价值
I think we've touched on a number of them that I hope that you'll find value in 
并在自己的生活中探索
and that you'll explore in your own lives.
我们将继续这个主题 因为这就是这个播客的运作方式
We are continuing with this theme because that's what we do for this podcast.
整整一个月  我们都坚持讨论一个主题
We stand one theme for an entire month.
下一期
For the next episode.
我们将探索神经可塑性的两个非常重要的方面 它们实际上与学习有关
we're going to explore two very essential aspects of neuro plasticity that actually relate to learning,
就是痛苦
which are pain,
痛苦管理和神经再生
pain management and neural regeneration.
对于那些没有受伤或者没有遭受慢性疼痛的人
And for those of you that don't have injuries or don't suffer from chronic pain,
这个讨论仍然是非常重要的
the discussion is still going to be a very important one because 
因为它不仅仅可以你摆脱的疼痛
it's not just going to be about pain that you're trying to get rid of it.
它也将涉及疼痛网络中的某些感官体验如何被放大
It's also going to be about how certain sensory experiences within the pain network can become amplified,
以及如何使用自上向下的机制调制
as well as how we can use top down modulation.
我们可以用大脑来抑制疼痛反应
we can use our mind to suppress the pain response.
我们也会讨论一些
We're also going to talk about some of the hard,
这种存在于我们身体的外围的固定的自下而上的机制  来控制疼痛
wired mechanisms that are bottom up that exist in our periphery in our body to control pain.
我们还会讨论一些在疼痛系统和学习系统之间
and we're also going to discuss a number of interesting interactions between the pain system 
有趣的互动
and the learning system.
再说一下
So again,
如果你对痛苦本身不感兴趣
if you're not interested in pain per se,
为了理解优化大脑 这仍然是一次非常有用的讨论
it still is going to be a very valid conversation for sake of understanding.
它与如何优化大脑性能和神经再生与这个讨论密切相关
How to optimize brain performance and neural regeneration goes hand in hand with that discussion.
所以我希望你能加入我们
so I hope you'll join us for that.
我想我还得提一下  科斯特洛今天打呼的声音特别想
I suppose I'd be remiss if I didn't mention that Costello has been storing extremely loudly today.
是的
Yeah,
今天早上散步了很久
a good long walk this morning,
沿着车道一直走下去  在走上来
which means up the driveway down the driveway.
他是个老家伙了
He's an old dog,
所以如果你一直在注意这个背景音 又让你分心了
so if you've been hearing him in the background and it's been distracting now,
那你现在应该知道为什么了  这可能与你的自主觉醒水平有关
you know why it probably relates to where you were on your level of autonomic arousal.
我把这个问题留给你们自己来回答
And I'll leave it to you to answer that question for yourself.
你们中的许多人会继续礼貌地问如何支持播客
Many of you continue to graciously ask how you can help support the podcast,
我们非常感谢这个问题
and we really appreciate the question.
最好的办法是在平台上订阅
The best way is to subscribe wherever it is.
你正好在听或者在看的那个平台
you happen to be listening or watching.
如果你用Youtube 请订阅Youtube频道
So for those of you that its Youtube please subscribe to the Youtube channel,
如果用苹果播客
that's Apple,
也可以订阅播客或订阅Spotify
subscribed to the podcast on Apple or its modify subscribe.
它们可能你都订阅了
They're maybe you subscribed to all three.
如果你对我们未来的播客或话题有意见和反馈
If you have comments and feedback for US suggestions for future podcast episodes or topics to cover.
请把这些放在Youtube的评论区
Please place those in the comment section on Youtube.
苹果也提供了一个可以留言的地方 你可以给我们打分的时候留言
Apple also provides a section where you can give us a rating.
如果你能给我们五星 我们会很高兴的
We would love it if you give us a five star rating,
或者按照你自己的想法打多少分都可以
Or whatever it is that you feel that we deserve,
一般而言
and in general,
如果你能向大家推荐播客
if you could tell people about the podcast,
我们希望你能告诉他们   只要你认为这些信息会对他们有用
we hope that you would tell them because you think the information will be of use to them.
当然
Of course,
告诉你的朋友告诉你的家人
tell your friends tell your family,
告诉你的同事 因为随着播客的扩展
tell your coworkers because as we expand the podcast,
对播客的支持也会随之增长
the support for the podcast just grows along with it.
这是支持我们的好方法
So that's a terrific way to support us as always,
还有可以看看我们的赞助商
check out our sponsors,
这在一开始就提到过
which were mentioned at the beginning.
除此之外
And in addition to that,
我们现在建立了一个Patreon账户
we've now set up a Patreon account.
有些人特别问如何支持播客
Some of you asked specifically how you can help support the podcast,
但对我们的赞助商不感兴趣
but you weren't interested in our sponsors,
或者你已经在用我们的赞助商的产品了
or you were already engaged with our sponsors.
所以我们有一个Patreon账户
So we have a patriot on account.
你可以找到它
You can find it.
在patreon.com/andrewhuberman
At patreon.com/andrewhuberman
最后
Finally,
在今天和以后的节目中
in previous episodes to day and in future episodes,
我都会提到补剂
I mentioned supplements.
补剂是一种方法
Supplements are one way,
但肯定不是唯一的方法
but certainly not the only way,
但它们是我们调节神经系统的一种方式
but they are one way in which we can modulate our nervous system,
为了更好的睡眠
forsake a better sleep,
学习  清醒和其他一些功能
learning alertness and several other things as well.
如果你对补剂感兴趣
If you're interested in supplements,
我们和Thorne合作
we've partnered with Thorn T H O R N E.
因为Thorne的补品在剂量方面有很高的要求
Because thorn supplements have very high stringency in terms of what's in the bottle.
每个胶囊或药丸中物质的含量和瓶子上的是严格一致的
The amounts of the substances that are in each capsule or pill,

他们还和其他组织合作 比如梅奥诊所
And they have partnered with other groups such as the Mayo Clinic,
所有主流的运动队
all the major sports teams.
所以Thorne非常严谨
So there's very high rigor associated with thorn,
所以我们决定和他们合作
which is why we've decided to partner with them.
如果你想查一下补剂或者看看我服用的补充剂
If you'd like to check out or in supplements and see the supplements that I take,
你可以去thorne/u/huberman
you can go to thorne/u/huberman
你们也会看到我服用的一些补品的清单
and you'll see a list of some of the supplements that I take as well.
买那里列出的补品
You'll get twenty percent off.
还可以打八折
Any of the supplements listed there,
thorne网站上的其他产品也可以打八折
as well as anywhere else on the thorn website,
所以是thorne/u/huberman
so that thorne/u/huberman
20%的优惠
for twenty per cent off any thorn supplements.
最后
Last but not least,
我代表我和科斯特洛
on behalf of me and Costello,
我想感谢大家抽出时间来关注今天的这一期
I want to thank you for your time and attention to day 
和往常一样
and as always,
谢谢你对科学的兴趣
thank you for your interest in science.