Author: Faye
This transcript is derived from the YouTube transcript https://www.youtube.com/c/AndrewHubermanLab

欢迎来到HubermanLab播客
Welcome to the HubermanLab Podcast,
在这里  我们讨论日常生活中的科学和基于科学的工具
we discuss science and science space tools for everyday life.
我叫安德鲁·休伯曼
My name is Andrew Huberman
是斯坦福医学院神经生物学和眼科学的教授
and I'm a professor of neurobiology and ophthalmology at Stanford School of Medicine.
这个播客和我在斯坦福大学的教学和研究角色是分开的
This podcast is separate from my teaching and research roles at Stanford is,
然而
however,
这是我的部分愿望和努力
part of my desire and effort
为的是为你们带来零成本的消费者信息  关于科学和科学相关工具
to bring you zero cost of consumer information about science and science related tools.
为了与这个主题保持一致
In keeping with that theme,
我要感谢今天播客的赞助商
I'd like to thank the sponsors of today's podcast.
我们的第一个赞助商是headspace headspace是一款冥想应用 让冥想变得简单
Our first sponsor is head space Head Space is a meditation app that makes meditation easy.
我已经断断续续地冥想了30年
I've been meditating on and off now for about thirty years,
我检讨 更多的是断
although I confess more off than on.
因为我认为  对很多人来说
And that's because I think for a lot of people,
坚持冥想练习是相当具有挑战性的
sticking to a meditation practice can be pretty challenging.
我几年前开始使用hadspace
I started using had space a few years ago,
我发现它真的能让我坚持定期的冥想练习
and I found that its really allowed me to stick to a meditation practice on a regular basis.
我每周冥想五到七次
I meditate anywhere from five to seven times a week.
这款应用包括的冥想音频  都得到了科学同行综述研究
The app includes meditations that are all backed by scientific peer,
的支持
reviewed studies,
这让开始和完成冥想变得很容易  我开始使用这些冥想音频
and it makes it really easy to start and complete the meditations I started using these meditations.
几年前 当我乘坐捷蓝航空公司的航班时
while I was flying a few years back on Jetblue flights,
他们开始提供Headspace冥想
They started offering head space meditations.
这就是我开始使用它的契机
That's why I initially started,
然后我转到应用程序 我真的很喜欢它 我从中获得了很大的好处
and then I moved over to the app and I really enjoy it and I derive great benefit from it.
如果你想试试Headspace
If you'd like to try head space,
你可以去headspace.com/specialoffer
you can go to a head space dot com slashed special offer.
如果你这么做了
And if you do that,
你可以免费享受一个月Headspace提供的所有冥想
you'll get all the meditations that had space offers for free for one month.
这是headspace.com/specialoffer
That's head space Dot com slashed special offer.
你可以免费得到所有的冥想
You get all the meditations for free,
这是目前最优惠的报价
which is the best offer that has based has available right now.
如果你对此感兴趣
So if you're interested in it,
去看看吧
check it out.
今天播客的第二个赞助商是Athleticgreens
The second sponsor of today's podcast is athletic greens.
Athleticgreens是一种维生素矿物质益生菌饮料
Athletic greens is an all in one vitamin mineral probiotic drink.
我从2012年开始使用Athleticgreens
I started using athletic greens in two thousand and twelve,
从那以后我就一直在用它
and I've been using it continuously ever since.
我开始使用Athleticgreens食品 是因为他发现人们想要知道应该摄入哪些维生素和矿物质
I started using athletic greens because he found it rather desiring to know which vitamins and minerals to take  Athleticgreens
食品可以让我在一种饮料中
and athletic greens allows me to get the full base of all the necessary vitamins and minerals
获得所有必要的维生素和矿物质
in one easy to consume drink.
结果 这种饮料味道也很好
It also turns out that the drink tastes quite good.
我把柠檬汁和水混合在一起 每天喝一两次
I mix mine with some lemon juice and some water I'll drink at once or twice a day.
Athleticgreens中的益生菌对我也很重要
The probiotics in athletic greens are also important to me,
因为现在有很多数据支持这一事实
because there are a lot of data now supporting the fact that
即肠道微生物群对肠道大脑认知功能
the gut microbiome is important for the gut brain access for various aspects of cognitive function,
免疫功能
immune function,
代谢功能的各个方面都很重要
metabolic function.
拥有健康的肠道微生物群对很多东西都很重要
There's just a huge number of things that having a healthy gut microbiome has been shown to be important
通过服用Athleticgreens
for so by taking athletic greens,
基础的都搞定了
I have that base covered as well.
如果你想试试Athleticgreens
If you'd like to try athletic greens,
你可以去 Athleticgreens.com/huberman
you can go to athletic greenstock calm slash huberman,
你进入网页后
and if you do that,
他们还会给你提供一年的液体维生素D3 和K2
they'll give you a year supply of liquid vitamin D three K two.
现在也有很多数据显示维生素D3
There are also a lot of data now showing that vitamin D three
对于许多不同的生物功能都非常重要
is very important for a number of different biological functions.
此外
In addition,
他们会给你五份免费旅行装
they'll give you five free travel pacts with your order.
在路上用粉末药品是很困难的 比如在汽车里 酒店里或飞机上
It can be difficult to mix up powders while on the road you know when in a car or in a hotel or on a plane,
旅行包让一切都变得又干净又方便
The travel packs make everything really clean and easy,
这样你就能得到你所需要的维生素D3 K2 再加上五个免费的旅行装
so you'll get the your supply of vitamin D three K to plus the five free travel packs.
如果你去athleticgreens.com/hunberman
If you go to athletic greensdot com slash Huber men.
今天播客的第三位赞助商madefor 是一家行为科学公司
The third sponsor of today's podcast is made for made for is a behavioral science company that makes learning
它让学习积极的习惯和成长的心态变得容易
positive habits and growth mindset easy.
我从一开始就参与了madefor 作为他们的科学顾问领头人
I've been involved with made for since the beginning as the lead of their scientific advisory.
科学咨询委员会的其他成员包括
Other members of the scientific advisory include,
比如
for instance,
国家心理健康研究所犯罪生物学组的负责人
the head of the criminal biology unit at the National Institutes of Mental Health,
以及来自哈佛医学院和其他地方的精神病学家
as well as psychiatrists from Harvard Medical School and elsewhere,
他们对科学和科学工具都很认真
all of whom are serious about science and science,
用于开发积极习惯和成长心态
related tools for developing positive habits and growth mindset.
这个项目为期10个月
The program is a ten month program,
每个月你都要参加一项专门的活动
during which each month you engage in a specific activity designed
来鼓励和培养积极的习惯和成长的心态
to encourage and cultivate positive habits and growth mindset as well.
我们每月举行一次zoom电话会议 讨论项目的进展
We hold a monthly zoom call during which we discussed the programme people's progress
并直接回答大家提出的任何问题
and answer any questions they have directly.
如果你想试试madefor 你可以去getmadefor.com网站
If you'd like to try made for you can go to get made for dotcom,
如果你在结账时输入Huberman
and if you put human in at check out,
你可以享受八折优惠
you'll get twenty percent off the program that's get made for dotcom,
结账输入huberman可以打八折
Put human in a checkout and get twenty per cent off.
今天
Today,
我们将讨论如何改善你的神经系统
we're going to talk about how to change your nervous system for the better.
你应该还记得
As you recall,
你的神经系统包括大脑和脊髓
your nervous system includes your brain and your spinal cord,
还有大脑和脊髓与身体器官的所有连接
but also all the connections that your brain and spinal cord to make with the origins of your body
以及身体各器官与大脑和脊髓的所有连接
and all the connections that the organs of your body make with your brain and spinal cord.
我们称之为神经系统的东西负责我们的认知
This thing that we call the nervous system is responsible for everything we know,
我们所有的行为
all our behavior,
我们所有的情绪
all our emotions,
我们对自己和外部世界的所有感觉  我们的所有想法和信念
everything we feel about ourselves and the outside world everything we think and believe
是我们整个生命的中心以及决定了我们是谁
it's really at the center of our entire experience of life and who we are.
幸运的是
Fortunately,
人类
in humans,
与其他物种不同
unlike in other species,
我们可以通过采取一些非常具体和有意的行动来改变我们的神经系统
we can change our nervous system by taking some very specific and deliberate actions.
今天我们要关注的是行动
And today we're really going to focus on the actions,
运动控制  运动的各方面 以及平衡  都使我们能够改变神经系统
the motor commands and the aspects of movement and balance that allow us to change our nervous system.
事实证明 运动和平衡实际上为以我们想要的方式
It turns out that movement and balance actually provide windows or portals into our ability
改变神经系统的能力
to change our nervous system,
提供了窗口或门户
the way we want.
即使这些变化与学习新动作无关
even if those changes are not about learning,
与学习如何平衡无关
New movements are learning how to balance,
很快你就会明白为什么
and soon you'll understand why.
今天我们要讲的是神经可塑性的基础科学
So today we're going to talk a lot about the basic science of neural plasticity.
我保证不会用过多的专有名词
I promise to not use excessive nomenclature.
会有一点
There'll be a little bit,
不过我会尽量讲清楚的
but I'll try to make it as clear as possible.
我们也会谈论很多关于科学文献观点支持的方案和工具
and we're also going to talk a lot about protocols and tools that the scientific literature points to and support for,
用于再次改变我们的神经系统
changing our nervous system again,
不仅仅是为了学习新的运动动作或更好地平衡
not just for sake of learning new motor movements or how to balance better,
还能对于如何对特定经历产生不同的感觉
but for how to feel differently about particular experiences,
无论是过去现在还是未来
both past present and future,
还能学得更快
as well as how to learn faster.
我们这里不讨论“生物黑客”
We're not going to discuss hacks,
我讨厌这个词  我们不讨论骗人玩意儿
A word I loathe we're not going to discuss gimmicks
我们讨论的是机制和科学数据  以这些为基础的工具
we're going to discuss mechanism and scientific data and the tools that those mechanisms and scientific data
这样你就可以根据你的具体学习需求和目标来调整你的实践
point to so that you can tailor your practices around learning to your specific needs and goals.
让我们从宏观的问题开始
So let's begin by just examining the big picture question,
也就是 大脑控制行为
which is does the brain control behavior.
我希望每个人都在这个时候立即反应过来
And my hope is that everyone is immediately thinking.
没错
Yes,
我们应该说  是大脑和神经系统
the brain and nervous system we really should say,
因为大脑只是控制我们行为的神经系统的一个组成部分
because the brain is just one component of the nervous system controls our behavior.
它是怎么做到的呢
How does it do that?
它有几个不同的层次 首先
there are a couple different levels that it does that first of all,
如果我们讨论动作
if we're talking about movement,
行为通常意味着动作
behavior generally means movement.
如果我们在谈论动作
If we're talking about movement,
在神经可塑性的研究中 我们有两类非常重要的神经元
we have two categories of neurons that are very important to think about in the context of neural plasticity.
首先
First of all,
我们有所谓的 下运动神经元
we have what are called lower motor neurons.
这些是在我们脊髓中的运动神经元
These are motor neurons that live in our spinal cord.
对于那些专业人士 对于那些可能被医学院录取
For the aficionados out there for those of you that might be had to medical school
或者想了解更多解剖学知识的人
or just want to learn more about the anatomy.
它们是在脊髓的腹角
They live in the ventral horn of the spinal cord.
但如果你不想知道 那也没关系
But that doesn't matter if you don't want to know that
只要知道你有这些叫做下运动神经元的东西
just know that you have these things called lower motor neurons.
这些是位于脊髓中的神经元
These are neurons that are in the spinal cord,
但它们延伸出神经纤维 我们称之为轴突 延伸到外周神经系统 进入身体
but they extend a wire that we call an AXON out into the peripheral nervous system into the body.
这些神经元与肌肉相连
and those neurons connect with muscle.
它们向外发送电势 让我们的肌肉收缩  这是一个低点
They send electrical potentials out there that allow our muscles to twitch into contract as a low point of fact,
实际上
actually,
我们没有肌肉记忆
we don't have muscle memory.
根本没有肌肉记忆这回事
There's no such thing as muscle memory.
肌肉是愚蠢的
Muscles are dumb,
它们什么都不知道
they don't know anything.
它们没有历史
They don't have a history,
它们没有记忆
they don't have a memory,
它们什么都不知道
they don't know anything.
是控制这些肌肉的神经元
It is the neurons that control those muscles,
它们的放电模式储存了所有运动模式的信息
and they're firing patterns in which all the information for motor patterns are stored.
所以你走路的能力不是靠肌肉记忆
So your ability to walk is not muscle memory.
是神经记忆
It's neural memory.
下运动神经元
Now the lower motor neurons,
虽然比肌肉聪明
while smarter than the muscle,
可以这么说
so to speak,
但它们不是运动神经元中最聪明的 它们通常参与做被命令的事情
are is not the most brilliant of the motor neurons they are generally involved in doing what they are told,
他们被命令的途经有两个来源
and they are told what to do from two sources.
我们的脑干中有回路
We have circuits in our brain stem,
这就像是你深处的大脑围绕着你的脖子 被称为中枢模式发生器
so this would be kind of round your neck deep in the brain that are called central pattern generators.
它们有时被称为CPG
these are sometimes called CP Gs.
中枢模式发生器让我们产生重复的运动模式
Central pattern generators are what allow us to generate repetitive patterns of movement,
所以 无意识地吸气和呼气  吸气和呼气是由这个中枢模式发生器控制的
so inhaling and exhaling and inhaling and exhaling subconsciously is controlled by a central pattern generator.
这仅仅意味着神经元的集合
That just means a collection of neurons.
如果你真的想知道是什么  这是叫 preBötC神经元
If you really want to know they're called the pre-Botzinger  neurons
这是由加州大学洛杉矶分校的杰克·费尔德曼和他的同事发现的
discovered by Jack Feldman and colleagues at UCLA,
这些位于脑干的神经元
these neurons in the brain stem.
发送信息到神经并控制横膈膜发送
Send information down the frantic nerve and control the diaphragm send.
就是
It goes,
吸气
inhale,
呼气
exhale,
吸气
inhale,
呼气
exhale,
你不需要去想这个 你可以去思考如何呼吸
and you don't have to think about that you could think about it,
你可以改变吸气和呼气的持续时间
and you could change the durations of inhales and exhales,
改变一下
and change that up,
但是控制它们的运动神经元 只是对大脑的指令做出反应
but the motor neurons that control that are just responding to what the brain is telling it to do.
其他中枢模式产生器  比如控制走路
The other central pattern generators include things like walking the right,
右腿左腿
Lim left limb,
右腿
right,
左腿
Lim left,
我们通常认为与走路有关的肢体模式 是在童年时期学习的
limb pattern that we normally associate with walking was learned during childhood.
中枢模式发生器也就是CPG 它告诉我们的下运动神经元发出信号
And the central pattern generator sometimes called CPG Tell our loader lower motor neurons fire.
发送 发送 然后神经元就会控制右 左
Now you fire now you fire so that they are literally saying right left,
右 左
right left.
根据从脑干到下运动神经元的命令  我们左右腿向前走了
They are the marching orders from the brain stem to the lower motor neurons.
所以这些下运动神经元只做它们被命令的事情
so these lower motor neurons do what they are told.
它们是听话的小士兵
They are obedient little soldiers,
它们按被命令那样去做
and they do what they are told,
它们的工作是让肌肉在特定的时间收缩
and their job is to make the muscles contract at specific times.
好
OK,
这些都是简单部分
that's all simple.
然后是上运动神经元
But then there are the upper motor neurons.
上层运动神经元实际上位于大脑顶部的运动皮层
The upper motor neurons actually reside in our motor cortex way up on top of the brain,
它们参与发送信号 为有意的行动发出信号
and they are involved in sending signals for deliberate action,
所以它们会把信号发送给下运动神经元
so they send signals to the lower motor neurons which are
也就是控制肌肉的效应神经元
the effector is the ones that actually control the muscles.
但是上运动神经元会发送特定的信号
But the upper motor neuron to the ones that send very specific signals.
比如
For instance,
这些信号会让你在早上冲一杯咖啡
the signals that would allow you to make a cup of coffee in the morning
或者有意识的去做一些动作
or to deliberately engage in any kind of behavior.
你可以在早上煮一杯咖啡  而且不用想太多
Now you can probably make a cup of coffee in the morning without having to think about it too much.
这对你来说几乎是条件反射
It's almost reflexive for you now,
这意味着很多关于如何执行特定动作的信息
which means that a lot of the information about how to perform that particular movement
已经传递到脑回路中
has been passed off to circuitry.
它现在或多或少地在脑干和运动皮层下面
That's now more or less in the brain stem and below the motor cortex.
那么
Now.
我为什么要告诉你这些细节
why am I giving you all this detail?
好吧
Well,
如果你想改变运动模式
if you want to change motor patterns,
你必须知道这个回路有可能在哪里改变
you have to know where in the circuitry,
你也应该知道变化最可能发生在哪里
changes are possible and you ought to know where the changes are most likely to occur.
你还需要知道你如何向大脑和神经系统发出信号 告诉它们需要改变了
You also need to know how do you signal to the brain that and nervous system that a change is necessary?
让我们暂停一下 回到我们开始的那个问题 那就是大脑是否控制行为
So let's just pause their return to the initial question we started with which is does the brain control behavior,
答案是肯定的
and the answer is yes,
现在你知道它的上运动神经元  下运动神经元是如何作用的了
and now you know how its upper motor neurons lower motor neurons.
你有叫做中枢模式发生器的东西  和一些与肌肉的联系
You've got these things called central pattern generators and some connection with the muscle.
就是这样
So there you go.
基本的你都掌握了
You just got basically.
基本上相当于大学课程的神经系统运动控制导论
What was the equivalent of the introduction to a college lecture on motor control in the nervous system?
但今天的重点是可塑性
But the point today is all about plasticity.
如何利用这一点  来开启我们所谓的可塑性  这个神奇的东西
How can that be leveraged in order to open up this magical thing that we call plasticity
来改变我们的情感体验或信仰体系
in order to access changes to our emotional experience or to our belief system,
或者我们记忆和使用特定信息的能力
or to our ability to remember and use specific kinds of information for,
比如
say,
数学
math,
语言
or language,
我不会告诉你  你需要去跑步或者你需要去
what I'm not going to tell you is that you need to go running or you need to go,
骑自行车
biking,
或者只是简单的说
or that simply going through.
运动模式将开启可塑性  我不喜欢这个说法
Motor patterns is going to open up plasticity because I hate to tell you this.
尽管锻炼有益
But as beneficial as exercise is,
但除非你做一些特定的事情才行
it does not open plasticity unless you do certain things,
然后我今天会告诉你这些机制到底是什么
and I will tell you exactly what those certain things are today.
先说清楚
To be clear,
我认为运动很棒 很健康  可以改善心血管功能
I think exercise is wonderful and healthy can improve cardiovascular function,
保持骨密度
maintain strange bone density,
有很多好处
all that good stuff,
但是仅仅锻炼  或做各种各样的训练  并不会改变你的神经系统
but just working out or doing your exercise of various kinds will not change your nervous system.
运动会保持神经系统的现状
It will maintain it,
它当然可以改善其他健康指标
and it can certainly improve other health metrics.
但它不会打开可塑性的窗口
but it is not going to open up the window for plasticity.
我们需要问的问题是  行为能改变大脑吗
The question we need to ask is can behaviour change the brain.
我们已经知道  大脑可以改变行为
We already agreed that the brain can change behavior,
但是行为能改变大脑吗
but can behaviour change the brain?
答案也是肯定的
and the answer is yes,
只要行为在一些方面
provided that behavior is different enough in specific ways,
与你已经知道的行为足够的不一样  就可以
from the behaviors that you already know how to perform.
我重复一遍 行为能改变大脑吗
Let me repeat that can behaviour change the brain,
答案是肯定的
and the answer is yes,
前提是这个行为要与你本来就知道怎么做的行为完全不同  才可以
provided that behavior is different enough from the sorts of behaviors that you already know how to perform.
我应该加上这个形容词
and I should have added the word.
做的好的
well,
因为如果你不知道该怎么做 很明显 你就无法去做这件事
because you can't obviously perform a behavior that you don't know how to perform,
因为你还不知道怎么做
because you don't know how to do it yet.
但是有一个关键因素可以让我们获得神经可塑性
But there is a key element to accessing neural plasticity that frankly,
在神经可塑性的普通讨论中  和学习相关的可塑性讨论中
I don't see out there in the general discussion about neural plasticity
我都没有听到这一点
in the general discussion about neuro plasticity and about learning,
我听说过很多技巧用不同的方法  来记住很多人的名字
I hear all these gimmicks about using different ways to remember lots of people's names
把东西排列成他们的首字母  和助记法等等
and arranging things into their first letters and mnemonics and all this kind of stuff which,
坦白地说 我觉得这只是噱头
frankly to me feels really gimmicky,
我觉得  如果你去看学习能力非常强的人
and I think that if you look at super learners,
他们往往是这样的人
They tend to be people that have a process of,
比如
say,
极强的记忆力
extreme memory,
但文献表明  通常记忆力极强的人
but people who have extreme memory generally,
在其他方面很不擅长
the literature shows us a pretty poor at other things,
所以我不认为我们大多数人都想要这种
so I don't think most of us are interested in walking around,
走到哪 记忆到哪的能力
knowing how to remember everything.
事实上
In fact,
有一些关于人类超常记忆的有趣研究
there are some interesting studies looking at humans who over remember,
他们承受着巨大的痛苦 因为他们记得所有的事情
and they suffer tremendously because they remember all sorts of things,
比如十年前他们买了一罐可口可乐  杂货店收据上的数字
like the number at the top of the receipt at the bodega that they bought a Coca Cola ten years ago.
这对大多数人来说都是无用的信息
This is useless information for most people,
他们没法生活地很好
they don't do well in life really,
所以我们的目标不是记住所有的东西
so the goal isn't to remember everything.
我们的目标是有选择性地对你的大脑进行改变
The goal is to be selective about your brain changes,
当我们谈到改变大脑时
and when we talk about brain changes,
我想强调适应性变化
I want to highlight adaptive changes.
我们之后会谈论创伤性脑损伤和痴呆
There's a whole category of things that we are going to discuss when we talk
这类事情
about traumatic brain injury and dementia,
这是未来一期的主题 里面的内容
a topic for a future episode about all the things that happen
全都是当你的神经系统受损或失去神经元时所发生的事情
when you have damaged your nervous system or you're missing neurons.
今天我真的想谈谈一些我认为与你们很多人非常接近的事情
But today I really want to talk about something that I think is very near and dear to many of your hearts,
也就是你可以通过哪些行为来获得神经可塑性
which is what are the behaviors that you can engage in to access neural plasticity.
这样你就可以把这种可塑性应用到你想学习或想忘却的特定事物上
So that then you can apply that plasticity to the specific things that you want to learn or unlearn.
这是非常重要的 因为我不想让人们觉得
This is very important because I don't want people to get the impression
我们是在学习一堆运动动作
that we're really talking about learning a bunch of motor movements.
你可能是个运动员
You may be an athlete,
可能不是运动员
you might not be an athlete,
你也许想学跳舞
you might want to learn how to dance,
也许不会
you might not.
你可能想学习如何跳舞 更好地记忆和学习语言
You might want to learn how to dance and get better at remembering and learning languages,
或者忘记一些困难的情感经历
or at unlearning some difficult emotional experience,
意味着  你想要从某段经历的特定记忆中移除情感负担
meaning you want to remove the emotional load from a particular memory of an experience.
我们今天要讨论的是  将行为作为一扇门
What we're talking about today is using behavior as a gate.
进入精神和身体的状态 让你获得可塑性
Enter states of mind and body that allow you to access plasticity.
那么 让我们来谈谈我们所能得到的不同类型的可塑性
So let's talk about the different kinds of plasticity that are available to us.
因为这些将直接指向我们应该采用的
Because those will point directly towards the type of protocols that we should engage in
让自己变得更好的方法类型
to change ourselves for the better.
这就是所谓的适应性可塑性
The so called adaptive plasticity.
有一种叫做具象可塑性的东西
There is something called representational plasticity.
具象可塑性就是你对外部世界的内在表征
Representational plasticity is just your internal representation to the outside world,
你有一张听觉空间的地图
so you have a map of auditory space.
信不信由你
Believe it or not,
也就是说 当我右边的事情发生时 你的神经元会做出反应
meaning you have neurons that respond when something over on my right happens,
比如在右边打了个响指
like a snapping my fingers over to my right
不过我左边打不响
can't snap as well on my left,
唉我这身体就是这样  左边有点弱
which is the whole thing into itself  a weak over there on the left side.
当我这样做的时候
When I do that,
是不同的神经元
they're different.
在对此做出反应
Neurons respond to those.
我们有一张视觉空间的地图
We have a map of visual space,
某些神经元只在视觉空间的特定部分看到事物 而不是其他部分
certain neurons are seeing things in certain portions of visual space and not others.
我们脑子里有一张运动空间的地图
We have a map of motor space,
也就是说 当我们向特定的方向移动四肢时
meaning when we move our limbs in particular directions.
我们知道四肢的位置
We know where those limbs are,
因为即使我们看不见它们
because even if we can't see them,
我们有所谓的本体感受反馈
we have what's called Proprioceptive Feedback.
所以  我们知道四肢的位置
So we have knowledge about where our limbs are.
事实上
In fact,
缺乏特定的 本体感觉反馈神经元的人
people that lack certain neurons that for proprioception feedback,
他们很不善于控制自己的运动行为
they are very poor at controlling their motor behavior,
他们经常受伤
they get injured a lot.
这是个挺可怕的情况
It's actually a terrible situation,
所以我们有了所有这些内部表征 我们有了我们的运动指令的地图
so we've got all these representations inside and we have maps of our motor commands.
我们知道
We know that,
比如
for instance,
如果我想伸出手抓住我面前的笔 我需要产生一定的力
if I want to reach out and grab the pen in front of me that I need to generate a certain amount of force,
我才能不用力过猛
so I rarely overshoot.
才能让那支笔不掉
I rarely miss the pen,
对吧
OK.
然后  我们的运动世界地图和感官世界地图融合在一起了
So our maps of the motor world and our maps of the sensory world are merged.
创造可塑性的方法是  在我们行为方式中创造不匹配或错误
The way to create plasticity is to create mismatches or errors in how we perform things.
而这
And this,
我认为
I think,
是神经可塑性的一个重要特征 却被大大的低估了
is an amazing an important feature of neuroplasticity that is highly under appreciated.
创造可塑性的方法是向大脑发送信号 告诉它哪里出了问题
The way to create plasticity is to send signals to the brain that something is wrong,
有些东西是不同的 没有达到有些事情
something is different and something isn't being achieved.
我认为这将完全改变大多数人对可塑性的看法
I think this will completely reframe the way that most people think about plasticity.
我们大多数人认为可塑性是  “行
Most of us think about plasticity as OK,
我们要进入最佳学习状态
we're going to get into this optimal learning,
或者心流”
state or flow,
然后突然之间 我们就可以做所有我们想做的事情
and then suddenly we're going to be able to do all the things that we wish that we could do well,
我讨厌打破你的幻想
I hate to break it to you.
但是心流  是对于已知的一种表达
But flow is an expression of what we already know how to do.
它不是一种学习的状态
It is not a state for learning.
我愿意在这点上  和任何不同意我观点的心流实践者一起辩论
and I'm willing to go to bat with any of the flow and testers out there that want to challenge me on that.
心流是神经系统能力的表达 这种能力已经根植于我们体内
One flow is an expression of nervous system capabilities that are already embedded in us.
错误 以及与我们想做的事情不同步然后犯错  才是我们的神经系统被激活的时刻
Errors and making errors out of sync with what we would like to do is how our nervous system is cued
是通过非常独特的一套生物机制
through very distinct biological mechanisms,
某些事情出了问题 因此某些神经化学物质被释放出来
that something isn't going right and therefore certain neural chemicals are deployed that
向神经回路发出必须改变的信号
signalled the neural circuits that they have to change.
让我们来谈谈支持我刚才所说的那些实验
So let's talk about the experiments that support what I just said,
因为我要告诉你们 一次又一次的犯错是塑造你的神经系统的途径
because I'm about to tell you that making errors over and over and over again is the route to shaping your
这样神经系统才会表现得越来越好
nervous system so that it performs better and better and better.
但我不会告诉你 你在健身时 最后一组做失败 也是神经可塑性
And I'm not going to tell you that the last rep of a set where you hit failure in the gym
不是的 两者是不同的
is anything like neural plasticity.
你要知道这一点
You hear that too,
这个重量已经把你推到了悬崖边上了  你再也无法正常运作你的身体了
that you know it's pushing to that point of of a cliff where you just can't function anymore.
你觉得那是信号吗
That's the signal
那不是信号
that's not the signal.
这是一个独特的神经肌肉现象
that's a distinct neural,
与获得神经可塑性毫无相似之处
muscular phenomenon that bears zero resemblance to what it takes to get neural plasticity.
让我们来谈谈犯错中的错误  以及为什么会这样  以及如何触发化学物质的释放来让我们
So let's talk about errors in making errors and why and how that triggers the release of chemicals
不仅能够学习动作感觉  比如说弹钢琴
that then allow us to not just to learn the thing that we're doing in the motor sense play the piano,
跳舞
dance,
还能在大脑中创造一个改变自我的环境
but it also creates an environment to mill you within the brain that allows us to then go.
让我们可以学习如何将特定的情感与那份经历分开  或获得更好的语言学习能力
Learn how to couple are uncouple of particular emotion to an experience or better language,
或者更好的数学学习能力
learning or better mathematical learning.
这是我们如何建立神经系统的一个基本问题
It's a really fundamental aspect of how we're built,
当你去了解它的时候
and when you look at it,
其实很简单
it's actually very straightforward.
就是一系列逻辑步骤  一旦你学会如何去打开这个门
It's a series of logical steps that once you learn how to open those hatches,
它之后的实现会变得非常简单
it becomes very straightforward to deploy.
上一期
Last episode,
我们讨论了神经可塑性的一些基本原理
we discussed some of the basic principles of neuroplasticity.
如果你没听过
If you didn't hear that episode,
没问题
no problem,
我快速回顾一下
I'll just review it quickly,
里面说了  我们所做和经历过的一切都会改变我们的大脑的观点是错误的
which is that it's a falsehood that everything that we do and experience changes our brain,
只有当特定的神经化学物质
the brain changes when certain neural chemicals,
即乙酰胆碱
namely acetylcholine.
肾上腺素和多巴胺
Epinephrine and dopamine,
被释放 以及在特定时间释放  才会标记神经回路让它变化
are released in ways and in the specific times that allow for neural circuits to be marked for change.
然后这种变化在稍后的睡眠中发生
and then the change occurs later during sleep.
我之后再复习这块内容
I'll review that later.
但基本上 你需要在大脑中释放某种化学物质的混合物
But basically you need a certain cocktail of chemicals released in the brain
以便用特定的行为重塑我们大脑的工作方式
in order for a particular behavior to reshape the way that our brain works.
所以真正的问题是 是什么让这些神经化学物质释放出来的呢
So the question really is what allows those neural chemicals to be released
在上一集 我们谈到了注意力
and last episode and talked all about focus.
如果你还没看过或听过那集
If you haven't seen or heard that episode,
你可以去看看一些具体的工具和做法 可以让你建立你的能力
you might want to check it out about some specific tools and practices that can allow you to build up your
集中精力和释放某些化学物质的混合物
capacity for focus and release certain chemicals in that cocktail.
但今天我们要讨论混合物中的其他化学物质
But today we're going to talk about the other chemicals in the cocktail,
准确来说是多巴胺
in particular dopamine,
我们将围绕犯错这个问题展开讨论
And we're really going to center or discussion around this issue of making errors
为什么犯错是一个信号 来告诉大脑
and why making errors is actually the signal that tells the brain.
好了
OK,
是时候改变了 或者更通俗地说
it's time to change or more generally,
是时候关注某些事情了 这样你才能有所改变
it's time to pay attention to things so that you change,
我想把这一点区分清楚
and I really want to distinguish this point really clearly,
我今天会讲很多关于运动和前庭运动 也就是平衡  的事情
which is that I'm going to talk today a lot about motor and vestibular meaning balance programs,
但不仅仅是为了学习
but not just for learning,
运动指令和平衡  不仅仅是为了学习新的运动技能 提高平衡
motor commands and and balance not just for learning new motor skills in balance,
也是在为你的大脑重置一个阶段或一种条件
but also offered setting a stage or a kind of condition in your brain.
我们可以学到这些 也可以学其他的东西
we can go there and other things as well.
让我们先来谈谈一些真正明确了这个理论的经典实验
So let's talk about some classic experiments that really nail down.
在这个关于可塑性的讨论中  到底什么是最重要的
what's most important in this discussion about plasticity.
上期播客我提到过
So I mentioned last episode,
我现在再说一遍
and I'll just tell you right now.
就是
Again.
大脑从出生到25岁左右都有着不可思议的可塑性
the brain is incredibly pat plastic from about birth until about age.
光靠被动体验就会塑造大脑
Twenty five passive experience will shape the brain,
只是因为化学物质在大脑里晃动的方式
just because of the way that the chemicals that are sloshing around in there in the way
以及神经元在各种事物中的排列方式
that the neurons are arranged in all sorts of things,
那个阶段  大脑的工作是根据自身的经验进行调整的
The the brain's job is to customize itself in response to its experience.
然后是25岁左右
And then somewhere about twenty five.
不是说你过了26岁生日之后
It's not like the day after your twenty six berths,
可塑性马上消失了啊
eight plasticity closes.
会有一段时间  可塑性会逐渐减弱 作为一个成年人 你需要不同的机制来培养可塑性
there's a time tapering off of plasticity and you need different mechanisms to engage plasticity as an adult.
今天我们主要讨论的是成年人的可塑性
We're mostly going be talking about adult plasticity today,
但我接到了很多问题
but I got a lot of questions about.
如果我不到25岁怎么办呢
what about if I'm younger than twenty five?
首先
First of all,
那太好了
that's great,
我还希望自己还是那么小
I wish I could.
我希望有个时光机
I wish I had a time machine,
当然了  我没有 因为
but I don't because,
就像我之前说的
as I've said before,
很讽刺  你年轻的时候
the stinger is when you're young.
你的大脑可塑性很强
Your brain is very plastic,
但你对自己的经历没有那么强的控制力  但随着年龄的增长
but you have less control over your experience when you're older.
一般来说
Generally,
你对自己的经历有了更多的控制权
you have more control over your experience,
但你的大脑可塑性更弱
but your brain is less plastic,
所以如果你是一个20岁或15岁的年轻人 在问这些问题
so if you're already asking the question as a twenty year old or a fifteen year old,
我现在该怎么办
what can I do now?
才能增强我的大脑
That's really enhance my brain.
我想这个简单的问题的答案 就是一声叹气
I guess the simple question would answer Excuse me would be a sigh
哎  接受尽可能广泛的教育吧
which we get the broadest education you can possible.
这意味着你最好去学 数学
That means math,
化学
chemistry,
物理
physics,
文学
literature,
音乐
music.
学习演奏一种乐器
learn how to play an instrument.
我这么说是因为我希望我年轻的时候可以学乐器
I'm saying that because I wish I had,
等等
etc.
在很多事情上接受广泛的教育培训
Get a broad training,
然后找到真正能抓住你激情和兴奋的事情
a number of things and find the thing that really captures your passion and excitement,
然后在那里投入额外大量的努力
and then put a ton of additional effort there.
这就是我的建议
That's what I recommend,
包括情感发展  这可能会作为未来一集的主题
Including emotional development may be a topic for a future episode.
不管你是成年人还是年轻人
If you are an adult or if you are a young person,
知道如何自己去挖掘这些塑性机制之后  会让你更强大
knowing how to tap into these plasticity mechanisms is very powerful.
你需要在什么时候  在神经系统中释放哪些化学物质
You need these chemicals deployed in the nervous system in order to mark
来标记在随后的时间里哪些神经细胞的激活 来改变你的大脑
whatever nerve cells happened to be firing in the time afterward.
但人们却沉迷于要去指导
For change and people are obsessed with asking.
该吃什么补品什么药物
you know what supplements what drugs,
需要什么条件
what conditions,
什么样的机器  才能有可塑性
what machines or will allow for that.
但明明你自带了一些天生的条件  可以让你有可塑性
But there's a natural set of conditions that allow for that.
当我们来到这个世界的时候
When we came into this world,
我们学会了用大脑中不同的地图来交换经验
we learned to take our different maps of exchange of experience.
运动地图  听觉地图  视觉地图 并将它们联系起来
Are motor maps are auditory maps or visual maps and to link them.
我们把地图匹配起来
we align those maps.
最简单的例子
The simplest examples,
我之前给的那个例子
the one I gave before,
如果我听到右边的声音
if I hear something off to my right,
像这样的哒的一声
like a click like that,
可能是我的手指发出的响动 也可能是其他什么东西发出的
it could come from my fingers snapping or it could come from something.
或者是我右边的其他人或其他东西发出来的声音
Generally by somebody else or something else to my right,
我会向右看
I look to my right.
如果我听到左边的声音
If I hear it on the left,
我会向左边看
I looked to my left.
如果我听到它就在我面前
If I hear it right in front of me,
我就会看着自己的前方
I keep looking right in front of me,
如果我听到身后的声音
and if I hear behind me,
我会转身
I turn around.
那是因为我们的视觉空间地图  听觉空间地图
And that's because our maps of visual space and our maps of auditory space
以及运动空间地图是完全匹配的
and our maps of motor space are aligned to one another in perfect register.
这是我们神经系统的一个不可思议的特征
It's an incredible feature of our nervous system.
它发生在一个叫做上丘的结构中
It takes place in a structure called the superior colliculus.
你不需要知道这个名字  关键在于上丘是有层次的
All that you don't need to know that name superior colliculus has layers,
真的是神经元堆叠了起来
literally stacks of neurons,
就像三明治  而中心点就在我面前
like in a sandwich where the zero point right in front of me,
或者
or maybe you know,
在我右边10到15度  或者在我左边10到15度的地方  都是匹配好的
ten or fifteen degrees off to my right or ten or fifteen degrees off to my left are aligned
这样听觉神经元也就是这样  关注我声音的神经元也在右边15度
so that the auditory neurons the ones that care about sounds at fifteen degrees to my right,
正正好位于视觉神经元正下方  在那些我的右侧15度处视觉的神经元正下方
sit directly below the neurons that look at fifteen degrees to my right in my visual system,
当我向这个方向移动时
and when I reach over to this direction,
有一个信号通过这些层发送下来告诉我们
There's a signal that sent down through those layers that says fifteen degrees off
观察的方向是向右15度
to the right is the direction to look.
这将是你要听的方向 如果需要的话  也将是你前进的方向
It's the direction to listen and it's the direction to move if I need to move.
这是一种匹配 这是非常强大的
So there's an alignment and this is really powerful,
这让我们能够以一种灵活的方式  在空间和生活中移动
and this is what allows us to move through space and function in our lives in a really fluid way.
它是在成长过程中被设置的
it's set up during development.
而有一些重要的实验表明  这些地图是可塑的
But there have been some important experiments that have revealed that these maps are plastic,
这意味着他们可以让研究对象  产生神经可塑性
meaning they can shift their subject to neuroplasticity.
而且有特定的规则  可以让我们改变它们
And there are specific rules that allow us to shift them.
这是一个非常重要的实验
So here's the key experiment.
这个关键的实验是我的一个同事做的 他现在已经退休了
The key experiment was done by a colleague of mine who's now retired.
但他的工作  绝对是神经可塑性领域的基础
but whose work is absolutely fundamental in the field of neuroplasticity.
埃里克·努森
Eric Knudsen,
努森实验室
the knudson lab,
许多笔记和实验室科学成果表明
and many of the notes and lab scientific offspring showed that
如果一个人戴上棱镜眼镜 就会改变他的视野（视觉地图）
if one is to wear prism glasses that shift the visual field.
所以最终 他的听觉地图和运动地图都会被改变
That eventually there will be a shift in the representation of the auditorium motor maps too.
他们最初做的实验是观察年轻的实验对象
Now what they initially did is they looked at young subjects.
他们所做的  就是通过让他们戴上棱镜眼镜来改变视觉世界
And what they did is they moved the visual world by making them wear prism glasses so that,
比如
for instance,
如果如果我的笔在我前面偏离中心5度就是偏离中心一点点
if if my pen is out in front of me at you know five degrees off centers are just a little bit off center.
如果你在听这个播客
If you're listening to this,
我的笔就在我右边一点点
this would be like just a little bit to my right.
但在这些棱镜眼镜里
But in these prism glasses,
我会看到那支笔在我很右边
I actually see that pen weigh over far on my right.
但实际上就在这里
so it's actually here,
但我看到它在那里 因为我的眼睛上戴着棱镜
but I see it over there because I'm wearing prisms on my eyes.
在第一天  他们会问受试者  给他们一个小东西
What happens is in the first day or so you ask people or you ask an animal subjects
让他们去拿这个东西
or whatever to reach for this object.
他们手伸到了错误的地方  因为他们看到目标的地方 不是真正目标的所在位置
and they reached to the wrong place because they're seeing it were.
它不是
It isn't.
这在开始的时候会变得特别复杂
This gets especially complicated when you start,
包括声音 当你的右边有东西发出声音时
including sounds when you have a thing off to your right making a sound,
但它实际上就在这里
but the thing is actually right here.
所以你在一个位置听到声音  而你会在另一个位置看到物体
so you're hearing the sound at one location and you're seeing the object at another location
因为你戴着这些棱镜
because you're wearing these prisms.
所以你对世界的印象完全被扭曲了
So your image of the world is totally distorted.
或者在其他小组做的实验中
Or in experiments done by other groups,
他们戴眼镜
they wear glasses.
受试者佩戴的眼镜可以完全颠倒视觉世界  所以他们看到的一切都是颠倒的
Subjects wore glasses that completely invert the visual world so that everything is upside down,
这是一个极端例子  大脑中的具象映射
which is an extreme example of these representational maps.
被翻转或移位了
Being flipped or shifted.
但你会发现 在年轻人中 一两天后
But what you find is that in young individuals within a day or two,
他们开始以完全正确的方式调整自己的运动行为
they start adjusting their motor behavior in exactly the right way
从而总是能够到达正确的位置
so that they always reach to the correct location,
所以他们在一个地方听到了声音
so they hear a sound at one location.
在不同的位置看到了发出声音的物体
they see the object that ought to make that sound it at a different location,
然后他们能够以某种方式  调整自己的运动行为  以伸到正确的位置
and they somehow are able to adjust their motor behavior to reach to the correct location.
太不可思议了 太不可思议了
It's incredible it's absolutely incredible.
或者对于颠倒了看世界的人来说
Or in the case of the people who look at the world upside down,
他们能够以某种方式  在这个颠倒的世界里穿梭
they somehow were able to navigate this upsidedown world,
尽管我们已经完全习惯了 我们的脚是在地板上而不是在天花板上
even though we're completely used to our feet being on the floor and not on the ceiling
人们不会像蝙蝠一样 挂在天花板上朝我们走来
and people not walking at us by hanging off the ceiling like bats
太惊人了 这告诉了我们
amazing and what it tells us,
这些地图彼此匹配 可以一起移动 调整 旋转 甚至翻转
is that these maps that are allying to one another can move and shift and rotate and even flipped themselves.
这种情况在年轻人身上的结果最好
And it happens best in young individuals.
如果你在老年人身上做这个实验
If you do this in older individuals,
在大多数情况下
in most cases,
重置地图要花很长时间
it takes a very long time for the maps,
才能转变过来
a shift,
在某些情况下 它们永远不会改变
and in some cases they never shift.
虽然这是一个实验性的场景
So this is a very experimental scenario,
但理解这一点很重要 因为它确实指出了这样一个事实
but it's an important one to understand because it really tamps down the fact that
我们有能力在我们对外部世界的表征中  创造戏剧性的变化
we have the capacity to create dramatic shifts in our representation of the outside world.
那么我们如何才能在成年后获得与青少年时期相似的可塑性呢
So how can we get plasticity as adult that mimics the plasticity that we get when we are juveniles,
现在努森实验室和其他实验室都还在研究这个
while the nudes in lab and other labs have looked at this,
这真的很有趣
and it's really interesting.
首先
First of all,
我们不得不问 可塑性的信号是什么
we have to ask what is the signal for plasticity?
仅仅是戴着棱镜眼镜吗？  不  因为他们做了对照实验  并排除了这个可能性
Is it just having prism glasses on no because they did that experiment and ruled that out?
是不是因为视觉上的东西在我的右边 看起来在我的右边很远
Is it just the fact that the visual thing is over to my appears to be far over to my right when in fact,
结果就在我面前
it's right in front of me
不是  产生可塑性的信号是
no the signal that generates the plasticity
犯错误
is the making of errors.
正是伸出手 然后没有摸到  这种失败向神经系统发出了信号
It's the reaches and failures that signal to these to the nervous system.
我的行为出错了  然后转变开始发生
This is not working and therefore the shifts start to take place,
这是非常重要的 因为我认为大多数人认为
and this is so fundamentally important because I think most people think.
哦
Oh,
练习不都是
while practice is going to be,
必须先进入初学者心态
I have to access beginner's mind,
当然了  这是一个很棒的概念
which is a great concept.
实际上
Actually,
它是一种接近事物  希望会先犯错的方式
it's about approaching things expecting to make errors,
这非常棒
which is great.
我想我是相信初学者心态的
I think I am a believer in beginner's mind.
人们感到沮丧是可以理解的 就比如说他们想学一段钢琴
People understandably get frustrated like they're trying to learn a piece on the piano,
他们不知道自己做不到 或者他们试图写一段代码
and they don't know they can't do it or they're trying to write a piece of code
或者他们试图获得某种运动行为
or they're trying to access some sort of motor behavior,
但他们做不到
and they can't do it.
挫折感让他抓狂
And the frustration drives him crazy,
我做不到
and I can't do it.
我做不到  而他们没有意识到  错误本身是在向大脑和神经系统发出信号
I can't do it when they don't realise that the errors themselves are signalling to the brain and nervous system,
就是要失败
something's not working.
当然 大脑并不理解这些词语
And of course the brain doesn't understand the words.
失败的事情
Something isn't working.
大脑甚至不理解沮丧  作为一种情绪状态
The brain doesn't even understand frustration as an emotional state.
大脑了解被释放的神经化学物质
The brain understands the neuro chemicals that are released,
也就是肾上腺素和乙酰胆碱
namely epinephrine and acetylcholine.
但同时
But also,
我们要讲到这个了
we'll get into this.
就是多巴胺分子  当我们开始接近正确的行为时
the molecule dopamine when we start to approximate the correct behavior just a little bit,
然后我们开始做一丁点接近正确的事情时
and we start getting a little bit right.
当我们犯错的时候
So what happens is when we make errors.
神经系统有点
The nervous system kind of,
我不想说它是被“吓到”了  因为这其实是一个非常机械化和控制化的情况
I don't want to be freaks out because it's a very mechanistic and controlled situation.
但是神经系统开始释放神经递质和神经调质
But the nervous system starts releasing neurotransmitters and neuromodulators
告诉我们最好改变神经回路中的一些东西
that say we'd better change something in the circuitry.
所以错误是神经可塑性的基础
And so errors are the basis for neuroplasticity.
对于学习   这更是重中之重
And for learning and I wish that this was a more prominent prominent out there,
我想这就是我这么说的原因
I guess this is why I'm saying it.
人类不喜欢这种沮丧的感觉 也不喜欢犯错误
And humans do not like this feeling of frustration and at making errors
少数人碰巧非常喜欢这种感觉 所以他们在各个方面都会做得非常好
the few that do do exceedingly well in whatever pursuits they happen to be involved
而不喜欢沮丧的人
in the ones that don't generally don't do well.
他们通常学不到多少东西
they generally don't learn much,
如果你仔细想想
and if you think about it,
为什么你的神经系统会发生变化？
why would your nervous system ever change?
它为什么只有当有让人害怕的事情出现的时候  才会改变呢?
Why would it ever change unless there was something to be afraid of?
那些让我们感觉糟糕的事情会发出信号 表明神经系统需要改变
Something that made us feel awful will signal that the nervous system needs to change.
或者是我们的表现出了错误
or there's an error in our performance.
结果是  这些错误的反馈
So it turns out that the feedback of these errors,
比如说伸向了错误的位置
the reaching to the wrong location,
这种反馈开始释放很多东西
starts to release a number of things.
你应该已经听过很多次了
And now you've heard about them many times.
但这需要首先  肾上腺素
But this would be epinephrine.
增加警觉性
It increases alertness.
乙酰胆碱  对应注意力集中
acetylcholine  focus,
这就是为什么我们感到挫败之后  放弃努力
and this is why frustration that leads us to just kind of quit and walk away from the endeavour
这才是最糟糕的事情
is the absolute worst thing.
因为如果乙酰胆碱被释放出来之后
But because if acetylcholine is released,
它会创造一个专注的机会
it creates an opportunity to focus on.
让你关注误差范围
The error margin,
就你正在做的和你想达到的 之间的距离
the distance between what it is that you're doing and what it is that you would like to do,
然后神经系统几乎立即开始做出改变
and then the nervous system starts to make changes almost immediately
试图做出正确的行为
in order to try and get the behavior right.
当你开始一点点地做对的时候
and when you start getting it even a little bit right.
第三个分子上线了  或者被释放
That third molecule comes on line or is released,
也就是多巴胺
which is dopamine,
这使得可塑性的变化发生得非常快
which allows for the plastic changes to occur very fast.
这是在年轻人的大脑中自然发生的事情
Now this is what all happens very naturally in young brains,
但在老年人的大脑中 这往往是相当缓慢的
but in old brains it tends to be pretty slow,
除了两种情况
except for in two conditions.
我暂停总结一下 如果你不喜欢犯错 经常轻易地就感到沮丧
So let me just pause and just say this If you are uncomfortable making errors and you get frustrated easily.
但如果你利用这种挫折感  进行更深入的努力
If you leverage that frustration toward drilling deeper into the endeavor,
你就能为自己建立一套极好的可塑性机制
you are setting yourself up for a terrific set of plasticity mechanisms to engage.
但如果你接受了这种挫折 放弃了努力
But if you take that frustration and you walk away from the endeavor,
你实际上是把可塑性 跟之后发生的事情来进行连接
you are essentially setting up plasticity to rewire you according to what happens afterwards,
也就是之后你会与痛苦进行连接
which is generally feeling pretty miserable.
所以现在你可以开始理解  为什么你不断地钻入一个点之后 会有一段令人沮丧的时候
So now you can kind of start to appreciate why it is that continuing to drill into a process to the point of frustration,
但是在这个过程中 再停留一点点时间
but then staying with that process for a little bit longer.
我来清楚地定义一下  我说的一点点是什么意思
And I'll define exactly what I mean by a little bit is.
成人学习以及童年的学习
The most important thing for adult learning,
最重要的是
as well as childhood learning,
尤其是成人的学习
adult learning in particular,
努森实验室里
now the Knudsen Lab.
在两组非常重要的实验中
At two very important sets of experiments.
第一个发表在 《自然》 期刊上
The first one was published in Nature,
一个非常重要的研究
a very important study,
这表明青少年可以在他们脑部的地图表现上  做出巨大的改变
which showed that juveniles can make these massive shifts in their map representations,
也就是说你可以带着棱镜 就可以大量且非常迅速的改变视觉地图
meaning you can shift the visual world using visual prisms.
年轻个体可以改变他们对世界的表征
A huge amount and very quickly young young individuals can shift their representations of the world
然后他们学会了到达正确的位置
said that they learn to reach to the correct location.
他们同时具有很强的可塑性
They get a lot of plasticity all at once,
而且在短短几天内  就发生得非常快
and it happens very fast in the period of just a couple days.
在成年人中
In adults,
并不是说非常缓慢
it doesn't tend to be very slow,
而是大多数人  从未真正完成完整的大脑地图的改变
and most individuals never actually accomplish the full map shift.
也就是说没有获得可塑性
They don't get the plasticity.
这里我们说的是这几张地图的匹配
And here we're talking about matches,
但也可能是学习一门新语言
but this could be learning a new language.
这可以是很多不同的我们想尝试的东西
This could be any number of different things that when we're attempting
我们说的是  也就是我之前一直说的
so what we're saying is what I always said before,
年轻的时候可以学习得很好
which is that we learn very well as youngsters,
但到了成年
but not as adults.
25岁后
After twenty five.
然后他们大脑的变化的渐变增量开始变小
But then what they did is they started making the increment of change smaller,
所以我们不是一下子通过棱镜来改变世界
So instead of shifting the world a huge amount by putting prisms that shifted the visual world.
就是一下子很右边
you know all the way over to the right.
成年人需要循序渐进地做 首先他们在棱镜上移动一点点
They did this incrementally so that first they put on prisms that shifted it just a little bit,
比如说7度
and just like seven degrees,
我相信这就是准确的数字
I believe was the exact number,
然后是14度
and then it was fourteen degrees,
然后是28度
and then it was twenty eight degrees.
他们发现成人的神经系统可以忍受越来越小的错误
And so what they found was that the adult nervous system can tolerate smaller and smaller errors over time.
但是你可以把这些错误叠加起来  这样你就可以得到很多可塑性
but that you can stack those errors so that you can get a lot of plasticity.
简单的渐进学习  作为一个成年人是绝对需要掌握的
Put simply incremental learning as an adult is absolutely essential.
你不能在对外部的表征上  突然发生巨大的变化
You are not going to get massive shifts in your representation to the outside world.
那么该如何做出小错误而不是大错误的呢
So how do you make small errors as opposed to big errors?
好吧
Well,
关键是
the key is.
更短的集中学习 更少的信息
Smaller bouts of focused learning for smaller bits of information.
作为一个成年人想要试图在一个学习过程中学习很多信息  这是不对的
It's a mistake to try and learn a lot of information in one learning about as an adult.
这些来自努森实验室的论文和其他研究表明
What these papers from the knudson lab show and what others have gone on to show is that
成人的神经系统完全有能力产生大量的可塑性
the adult nervous system is fully capable of engaging in a huge amount of plasticity.
但是你需要在每个学习周期或每个学习集中  用较小的信息增量
But you need to do it in smaller increments per learning epoch or per learning episode.
那么你该怎么做呢
So how would you do this?
好
Well,
比方说
let's say,
比如
for instance,
我罚球很烂
that I'm terrible at free throws,
假如我想在45岁的时候学罚球
so let's say I wanted to learn free throws on forty five years old,
远远超过25岁
some well past the two thousand and five,
强调一下
and under mark.
我会犯错误 会犯很多错误
I'm going to make errors or having a lot of errors.
如果我学习罚球
If I go into learning free throws,
知道犯错是通往可塑性的大门
knowing that errors gate of plasticity
那么
Well then,
我会感觉好一点
I feel a little bit better,
但我还是要为之奋斗
but I still have to aim for that.
球场边线 篮筐  篮网  额看来我对篮球知之甚少
the rim of the basket or the net basically showing how little I know about basketball,
但我知道篮球一般就是  一个网板加一个球
but I think I know the general themes around basketball involves a netback board and a ball,
当然是这样对吧
of course,
然后我走到罚球线上
so I go to the free throw line,
然后投球
and I'll throw,
我应该坚持多久呢？ 要到我遇到挫折的那个点
how long should I go Well until I'm hitting the point of frustration?
在那个时候
And at that point,
继续
continuing,
大概十到一百次尝试是我的极限
probably for anywhere from ten to a hundred more trials should be my limit.
是我的极限
That should be my limit.
在改善运动行为的某些特定方面
if I want to improve some specific aspect of the motor behavior.
所以问题是
and so the question,
是
then is,
我应该注意什么？
what should I be paying attention to?
我应该把重点放在什么上？ 显然是要把球投进篮筐
What should I be focusing on what obviously trying to get the ball into the basket?
但运动学习的美妙之处在于
But the beauty of motor learning is that
听觉 视觉和运动的回路  或多或少会自我学习
the circuits for auditory and visual and motor more or less teach themselves.
我不需要特别注意  我的手指和球的接触
I don't necessarily have to be paying attention to you exactly what you know the contact to my fingers with the
或者一些其他特征 比如我的膝盖是否弯曲
ball or some random feature like whether or not I'm bending my knees or not.
关键是要尝试很多不同的力度角度
The key is to try a number of different parameters until
直到我开始有更高一点的罚球准确率  然后尝试让动作保持一致
I start to approximate the behavior that I want to get a little bit better and then trying to get consistent about that.
那么
Now,
你们很多人会有体育运动的学习
many of you involved in sports.
会说
learning will say,
哦
Oh,
好吧
well,
很明显 这只是渐进学习
that's obvious is just incremental learning.
但关键是在这些错误中
But the key thing is in those errors,
通过分离错误  并在运动的特定方面产生大量错误
by isolating the errors and making a number of errors in a particular aspect of the motor movement,
它会向大脑发出信号说 它是可塑的
Its signals to the brain that it's plastic,
如果我从学习罚球的那段时间中 出来
and if I leave that episode of going and trying to learn how to shoot free throws,
我的大脑还是可塑的
my brain is still plastic.
可塑性是大脑和神经系统的一种状态
Plasticity is a state of the brain and nervous system.
它不只是适合我想学习的特定事物
It's not just geared toward the specific thing I'm trying to learn.
关于可塑性有两个方面我认为需要强调一下
So there are two aspects to plasticity that I think we really need to highlight.
一是你的可塑性面向你想要学的东西
One is that there is plasticity geared toward the thing that you are trying to learn specifically,
二是  有一些精神和身体的状态  会让我们获得可塑性
and then there are states of mind and body that allow us to access plasticity.
一直到这一集的结尾
Toward the end of this episode,
我会把具体的方法讲得越来越详细
I'm going to spell out specific protocols in more and more detail.
罚球的例子可能与你想学习的内容无关
That free throw example might not correlate with what you want to learn.
实际上
Actually,
我并没有很想去学罚球
I don't have a huge desire to learn.
我差不多已经放弃了篮球
Free throws have more or less given up on and basketball,
特别是罚球
but and free throws in particular.
但我认为重要的是  你们要知道的是
But I think that it's important to understand that motor movements
运动动作是获得可塑性状态最直接的方式
are the most straightforward way to access states of plasticity,
这可以是放弃对运动的学习或者放弃对可塑性的学习
and that can be forsake of learning the motor movement or forsake of accessing plasticity.
总的来讲
More generally.
成年后获得可塑性的非常重要的方面  不仅仅是较小的增量
One very important aspect to plasticine getting plasticity as an adult is not just smaller increments,
还有更短的一轮时间
meaning shorter bouts.
我再举个例子 比如100个罚球什么的
So I give an example of you know another hundred free throws or something,
但如果是在球场上 我罚了一万次球
but going out there and just getting my ten ten thousand free throws all at once or packing
一次性全部罚完
as much as I can into one.
对我来说 一次集中学习  并不如同成人时短时间的高强度学习那样有效
One episode is not going to be as efficient for me as shorter bouts of intense learning as an adult,
因为错误信号在我的神经系统中没有很好的定义
because the error signals are not as well defined to my nervous system,
它不知道什么需要改变
it's not going to know what needs to change,
所以这是
and so this is really.
渐进学习的关键  就是在于你试图向神经系统发出信号
The key element of incremental learning is that you're trying to signal to the nervous system
至少有一个改变的因素  需要改变神经系统知道误差是多少
at least one component that needs to change the nervous system needs to know what the error is.
那么
Now.
当我罚球时
when I shoot free throws,
天知道我犯了多少不同的错误  可能我弯曲膝盖的有问题
Lord knows there are a lot of different kinds of errors that happen probably the way I'm bending my knees,
可能是球的弧线
the arc of the ball.
可能是我整理肩膀的方式  可能我的眼睛所在的位置
The way I'm organizing my shoulder is probably where my eyes are.
很多因素
lots of things.
所以我们要关注的是
so which wants to focus on,
这是我之前说的
and that's what I said before.
这个运动系统的美妙之处在于
The beauty of the motor system is,
我不需要担心所有这些
I don't have to worry about all of that.
我只需要让这些表征  进入神经系统几次
I just need to get the rats in a number of times in the nervous system
神经系统就会知道我的动作  离我之前描述的那些匹配的地图有多远
will figure out how far off my motor commands are at the level of these maps that I described earlier.
这些行为偏离预期行为有多远
How far those or those deviate from the desired behavior,
要把球投进篮筐
getting the ball into the basket.
神经系统会开始做出调整
And it will start making adjustments.
但当我做出调整  或者当我的神经系统为我做出调整时
But as I make adjustments or as my nervous system makes adjustments for me,
关键是 不要开始增加各种新的错误
the key thing is to not start adding a variety of new errors,
因为它会被弄糊涂
because then it gets confused.
这就是为什么短暂的学习回合是绝对必要的
and so this is why short learning bouts are absolutely essential.
所以假设我们再成年后想学习乐器
So let's say it's for learning an instrument as an adult,
这个学习周期很可能在7到30分钟的时间内
probably anywhere from seven minutes to thirty minutes is going to be provided that it's full.
你完全投入到你的注意力中
you're fully attending your in your very focused is going to be a
你的专注会成为激发神经系统可塑性的重要刺激
pretty significant stimulus to inspire plasticity in the nervous system.
现在有一种方法可以让成年后同时拥有很多可塑性
Now there is one way to get a lot of plasticity all at once as an adult there is
有一点像一种圣杯式的理论
that kind of holy grail thing of you know,
你可以像你年轻的时候一样具有巨大的可塑性
Getting massive plasticity as you would when you were a young person.
对于一个成年人  克努森实验室通过设置一个非常严重的意外事件揭示了这一点
But as an adult and the Knudson lab revealed this by setting a very serious contingency on the learning,
他们所做的是 他们依然让实验对象 在他们错位的视觉世界中找食物
what they did was they had a situation where subjects had to find food that was displaced in their visual world
当然也是带着棱镜 他们要找到食物 食物位置会发出一些声音
again by putting prisms and they had to find the food and the food made a noise,
通过一系列的扬声器传出一种声音  设定了食物的位置
There was a noise set the location of the food through an array of speakers.
基本上
Basically,
他们发现 如果人们为了获得食物  而不得不调整他们的视觉世界
what they found was that if people have to adjust their visual world in order to get food,
可塑性最终还是发生了
the plasticity would eventually occur.
但成年后的这种反应非常缓慢
But it was very slow as an adult,
非常
it was very,
非常的缓慢
very slow.
除非他们必须要捕猎到那个食物
Unless they actually had the hunt that food they actually,
如果他们
if they,
为了吃东西
in order to eat at all,
他们就会需要可塑性
they needed plasticity,
然后发生的事情就非常的惊人
and then what happened was remarkable.
他们所观察到的是 成年人的可塑性
What they observed is that the plasticity is an adult can be as dramatic as robust as
和年轻人或幼年动物的可塑性一样强烈且强健
it is in a young person or in a young animal subject,
只要有一个严重的诱因去促使可塑性发生
provided that there is a serious incentive for the plasticity to occur,
理解这一点非常重要
and this is absolutely important to understand,
也就是我们对可塑性的需求程度  决定了可塑性增长的速度
which is that how badly we need or want the plasticity determines how fast that plus plasticity will arrive,
这是很不可思议的
which is incredible,
因为大脑只是神经元和化学物质交织在一起
because the brain is just neurons and soup of chemicals so with this,
但这却意味着某事的重要性
but this means that the importance of something,
某件事对我们有多重要  能够决定可塑性的速率和剧烈程度
how important something is to us actually gates the rate of plasticity and the magnitude of plasticity.
这就是为什么  如果只是被动地经历大多数事情
And this is why just passively going through most things,
走个过场
going through the motions,
就像我们说过那样
as we say,
或者即便有了“重复”
or just getting our reps.
不足以让神经系统改变  这项研究
is not sufficient to get the nervous system to change this study.
非常棒的研究
A beautiful study.
该研究发表在 《神经科学》 期刊上
Published in the journal Neuroscience,
它表明 如果我们真的必须完成某件事 比如说进食 或者比如说达到某个收入比例
shows that if we actually have to accomplish something in order to eat or in order to get our ration of income,
我们就会重塑我们的神经系统
we will reshape our nervous system very,
而且非常快
very quickly.
所以神经系统是有能力
so the nervous system has a capacity capacity.
在人生的任何阶段都以惊人的速度 以惊人的程度改变
to change at a tremendous rate to an enormous degree at any stage of life,
只要这件事对你来说足够重要
provided it's important enough that that happened,
我想你们有些人可能会说
and I think some of you might be saying Well,
害
duh,
这不是很明显吗
that's obvious.
如果真的很重要
if it's really crucial,
当然了
then of course,
脑子会变化得更快
it's going to change faster,
但其实不一定是这样的
but it didn't have to be that way.
对于大多数  想学得更快更好的人来说
And for most people who are trying to learn how to learn faster or learn better,
他们可能
they probably.
在大多数情况下 他们都已经达到了极限
In most cases they are hitting a limit,
但因为改变的需求门槛  还没有达到
because the need to change is not crucial enough.
我认为在很多地方  这种情况都与另一类事情很相似
and I think there are a number of places where this has important relevance in the.
嗯
You know,
就是那些正在与毒瘾抗争的人
people who are battling addiction,
是的
for instance,
我先说一下
I will be the first to say that you know,
因为上瘾确实存在着不可抵挡的生理因素  我对此感到很同情
I sympathise with the fact that addictions have a biological component.
很明显 在某些情况下 人们会非常努力地改变自己的行为和神经系统
There's clearly cases where people struggle tremendously to change their behavior and their nervous system.
在某些情况下
in some cases,
他们会被自己滥用的物质  或他们参与的行为所扰乱
is so disrupted by whatever substance they've been abusing or behavior that they've been engaging in
这会让他们很难改变
that it's that much harder for them to change.
但我们也看到了一些令人难以置信的例子 当人们不得不从内心的角度
But we've also seen incredible examples where when people have to change from an internal standpoint
从他们自己的信念和渴望出发  去改变
from their own belief and desire to change that,
那么巨大的变化是很可能的
massive change is possible.
所以  我认为努森所做的研究表明了  渐进学习可以给一个成年人
And so I think that the studies that Newton did showing the incremental learning can create.
创造很大的可塑性
A huge degree of plasticity is an adult,
前提是偶然性要非常大
as well as when the contingency is very high.
也就是说 我们需要吃饭 或者我们需要在工作上赚钱
Meaning we need to eat or we need to make an income where we need to do something.
这对我们来说至关重要  可塑性能够发生巨大的激增
that's vitally important for us that plasticity can happen in these enormous leaps,
就像他们在青春期和青年时期一样
just like they can in adolescence and young adulthood.
这表明了一个事实 那就是  大脑是一个神经化学系统
That points to the fact that it has to be a neurochemical system.
必须有一个基本的机制 对吧
There has to be an underlying mechanism right.
不是说要将电线插入大脑  或服用特定药物
This was in the case of sticking a wire into the brain or taking a particular drug.
我们所讨论的所有化学物质  都是从“药店”释放出来的
All the chemicals that we're about to talk about are released from drug stores.
也可以说是在我们所有人的大脑中的“化学剂仓库”   所以关键是如何利用这些化学物质
If you will chemical stores that already reside in all of our brains and the key is how to tap into those stores.
所以我们接下来要讨论的是哪些特定的行为释放了特定种类的化学物质
And so we're in the next talk about what are the specific behaviors that liberate particular categories of
使我们能够充分利用渐进学习
chemicals that allow us to make the most of incremental learning and
并为可塑性奠定了基础 使其足够相似或模仿
that set the stage for plasticity that is similar enough or mimics.
那些高偶然性的状态 比如需要获得食物或者真正产生一种内在的紧迫感
These high contingency states like the need to get food or really create a sense of internal urgency
化学紧迫性
chemical urgency.
也可以这么说
If you will.
如果你听过这期播客之前的内容
If you've heard previous episodes of this podcast,
你可能听我讲过昼夜节律
you may have heard me talk about all trading and rhythms,
这些90分钟的节律  将一天的24小时分开
Which are these ninety minute rhythms that break apart twenty four hours a day.
它们帮助我们进入不同的睡眠周期
They help break up our sleep into different cycles of sleep
比如快速眼动睡眠和非快速眼动睡眠 它们能帮助我们
like REM sleep in on REM sleep and in waking states they help us,
或者我应该说 它们以一种让我们在90分钟周期内学习得最好的方式  将我们的一天分割开来
or I should say they break up our day in ways that allow us to learn best within ninety minute cycles,
等等
etcetera.
有些人可能会说
So some of you might be saying,
等等
Wait,
你怎么又在讲昼夜节律了
You've been talking about all trading cycles
你刚讲的不是7分钟 12分钟或者30分钟的学习周期嘛
in a moment ago you were talking about seven minutes or twelve minutes or thirty minute learning cycles.
今天
Today,
我们真的要谈论一下如何通过完成一系列行为  来挖掘可塑性
we're really talking about how to tap into plasticity through the completion of a task
或者是如何熬过不断重复和犯错误这个阶段
or are working toward something repetitive and making errors.
所以这都是在
And so just a framed
昼夜循环的框架内的
In the context of the altrurian cycle,
比如说你坐下来
you might sit down.
决定要学一下会话法语
decide that you're going to learn a conversational French,
当然了 假设你还不会说法语
which would mean that you probably don't already speak French.
然后你坐了下来
so you're going to sit down,
你决定了你要学些什么
you're going to decide you're going to learn some,
一些名词
some nouns,
可能还有一些动词
and some verbs you might do.
按照昼夜节律循环
Some practice at the altar.
也就是 在开始的五到十分钟内
Median cycle says that for the first five to ten minutes of doing that,
你的思想会飘来飘去 但你的注意力大概率会开始集中
Your mind is going to drift and your focus will probably kick in,
只要你在视觉上
provided that your visually,
你把你的视觉范围限制在了你面前的材料上  这是我们上一集讲到的
you're restricting your visual world to that just the material in front of you is something we talked about last
这段时间大概是十到十五分钟
episode somewhere around the ten or fifteen minute Mark and then at best,
最好情况下  你可能会有一个小时的时间来学习  视觉椎体会一直聚焦在学习材料上
you're probably going to get about an hour of of deliberate kind of tunnel vision.
然后 你的思绪就又会开始乱飘
learning in their your mind will drift and then toward the end of that,
大概是在1小时10分或1小时20分钟左右
what is now an hour in ten or hour and twenty minute cycle?
你的大脑会开始恍惚
You're going to your brain will start to flicker in and out.
你可能会开始想  你要吃什么  或者你要上厕所之类的事情
You might start thinking about what you need to eat or the fact that you have to use the bathroom or something.
然后到了90分钟结束
And then by the ninety minutes.
也许是时候停止学习了 去做一些其他的事情
It's probably time to just stop the learning about and go Do something else
做完其他的事情之后再开始学习
may be returned for a second learning about later,
打个盹  或者其他提高学习效率的事情
but it may be take an app afterwards or something to enhance the learning,
但你经历一个学习循环的时间
but that it's going to happen within about a ninety minute block.
大约是90分钟
You're going to go through that that cycle of learning,
但是当我提到这7分钟 10分钟 12分钟或者30分钟的犯错周期时
But when I refer to the seven or ten or twelve or thirty minutes have of making errors,
我的意思是  在那段时间里你一定要
what I mean is when you're really in a mode of.
重复的犯错
Repeating errors,
不是故意犯错
not deliberately.
而是你在尽自己最大的努力去完成一件事情  然后你失败了
You're trying your best to accomplish something in your failing.
要绝对的失败
You are absolutely failing.
你必须努力回想
you're trying to remember,
比如说手语的基本字母表
say the sign language.
我最近就在自学这个  然后要不断重复 再重复
Alphabet must try to teach myself this recently and then keep repeating and repeating.
然后你会发现我一直在犯错误
and then you get to a certain point that I kept making errors,
犯错误
making errors,
犯错误
making errors.
你要在这段时间里不断犯错  我说过  这会持续7-30分钟
you want to keep making errors for this period of time that I'm saying will last anywhere for about 7-30 minutes.
这段时间非常令人沮丧
It is exceedingly frustrating.
但这挫折
But that frustration,
它会释放出可塑性产生所需的化学信号
it liberates the chemical cues that signal that plasticine needs to happen,
它们也会向活跃的特定神经元发出信号
and they also signal the particular neurons that are active.
比如在手语的例子中
So in the case of sign language,
我一边要控制着我的手
or might be the ones that control my hand movements,
一边要思考不同字母
as well as my thinking about what the different letters are,
它向大脑和身体之间网络中的不同成分发出信号
its signaling different components within the networks of between the brain and body.
它在试图弄清楚  等等
and it's trying to figure out wait.
这些错误是从哪里来的？  那些错误是从哪里来的？
Where are these hours coming from where the error is coming from?
啊
Ah,
是这些神经元犯了错误
it's those neurons they're making the mistakes they're making,
才导致我犯错
the mistakes that are making the mistakes.
大脑就真的重点关注了一些要改变的回路
And it essentially highlights that pathway for change.
在这种情况下 在学完一轮之后
And it is the case that when we come back a day or two later in a learning about after a nap
在午睡或一两个晚上后
or a night or two of depressed,
然后我们发现 我们可以在运动回路作用的时候  记住某些事情
then what we find is that we can remember certain things in the motor pathways work,
虽然并不是每次都完美地成功
and we don't always get it perfectly,
但我们开始做对很多
but we get a lot of it right,
而之前却是做错了
whereas we got it wrong before,
所以  7-30分钟的高强度学习  是在昼夜节律内进行的
so that seventy to thirty minute intense learning bout is within the trading cycle.
我想澄清一下
and I want to be clear about that.
有些人每天都能学好几轮
and some people can tolerate many of these per day.
而大多数人只能忍受一两次或者勉强三次学习
Most people can only tolerate one or two maybe three.
如果是罚球的话 这就是一项非常高密度的学习
This is intense work if shooting free throws,
你可以投上一整天
You could probably do it all day,
但是我想说的是 大家要努力通过每次
but what I'm talking about is really trying to accelerate plasticity by having a period of
学习7-30分钟的时间来加速可塑性
the seven thirty minutes per learning about that.
特别是要犯错误
Specifically about making errors,
我要强调这一点
I want to really underscore that and it's not about,
正如我之前提到的
as I mentioned before,
别整那些“生物黑客”或神神叨叨的东西
coming up with some little hack or tracker or something of that sort.
实际上就是试图激活神经系统  让它知道某些东西需要改变
It's really about trying to queue the nervous system that something needs to change
否则它就不会改变
because otherwise it simply won't change.
学习还有另一个方面
Now there's another aspect to learning.
我想我还是应该说一下
I think it's only fair to mention,
那就是当我们遇到非常糟糕的事情时 我们都可以很容易地学会
which is that we can all learn very easily when there's something very bad happens to us.
当然 我不希望
and I don't.
我不希望这种事发生在任何人身上
I don't wish this on anyone,
但如果真的发生了一些可怕的事情  比如我们会留下一辈子的记忆
but it is the case that there's something really terrible happens that we will have a lifetime memory.
对于这个事件
For that event,
有一些过程可以让我们解开那个事件的情感负担
we there are processes that allow us to uncouple the emotional load of that event.
我在 讲梦  创伤  幻觉的前几集里
I talked about some of those a few episodes back the episode on dreams,
讲过其中一些
trauma and hallucinations.
我们会在未来的某期里
and we're going to return to trauma,
重新回到创伤治疗  创伤后应激障碍  和其他一些话题
released PTSD and some of those other themes in a future episode.
但负面经历或负面经历之所以会如此迅速地与我们联系在一起
But the reason why negative experiences or it can be wired into us so quickly
是因为我们的神经系统的主要工作是保证我们的安全
is because our nervous systems main job is to keep a safe.
但在更深层次上
But at a deeper level,
是因为消极的经历
it's because negative experiences.
刺激了我们  让我们意识到  不管发生的是什么糟糕的事情  那都和以前发生过的事情有很大的不同
us to the fact that whatever is happening that's really bad is very different than the other things that tend to
所以我们的大部分经历并没有真正映射到我们身上
happen before so most of our experience doesn't really map us,
但是那些消极的经历会产生高水平的去甲肾上腺素  高水平的乙酰胆碱
but those negative experiences deploy high levels of norepinephrine high levels of acetylcholine
使得我们无论在那个糟糕的事件中经历的是什么
and really make so that whatever it is that we experience in that bad episode
本质上都是刺激了大脑  所以我们会一直注意它
is essentially queued up and so were on the lookout for it.
这有很多负面影响
And this has a number of negative effects,
但就心理和情绪影响而言
but in terms of the psychological and emotional effects,
但这实际上是一个保护我们安全的过程
but it is really a process designed to keep us safe.
另一个让我们可以更快地学习的方法
The other ways in which we can learn more quickly.
除了犯错误
besides just making errors
就是当某些事情真的让我们惊讶的时候  如果是积极的惊讶
is when something really surprises us and if were positively surprised by something
或者我们被多巴胺分子淹没了
or we are just flooded with this molecule dopamine,
那就会创造一个巨大的可塑性机会
then there is a great opportunity for plasticity.
多巴胺是一种几乎总是与快乐
Dopamine is a molecule that's almost always associated with pleasure
和完成特定目标相关的分子
and with the accomplishment of a particular goal.
它也是动力的分子
But it's really also a molecule of motivation.
它是一种  当我们认为自己在不断趋向于正确时  在我们体内释放出来的分子
It's a molecule that is released inside of us when we think we're on the right path.
它确实有增强神经可塑性
And it does have a capacity to increase neural plasticity,
增加动力的能力
motivation in,
它的释放是对一些自然行为的回应
It's released in response to a number of natural behaviors just that
这些自然行为有助于我们和其他物种的发展
help with the progression of ours and other species.
比如进食
Things like food,
性
sex.
在某种意义上
In some sense,
对社会关系也有帮助  虽然更多的是由于血清素
social connection although that's more serotonin and serotonin,
但血清素对可塑性没有同样的影响
doesn't have the same effects on plasticity.
不一样
Quite the same,
我们稍后会讲到
we'll talk about a few later.
但多巴胺是当我们认为自己正朝着一个外部目标前进时产生的
But dopamine is when we think we're on the right path toward an external goal.
释放了一点
A little bit is released,
然后它会给我们实现目标更多的动力
and it tends to give us more motivation toward that goal.
我认为每个人都可以通过以下方法来提高学习速度
I think everyone could stand to enhance the rate of learning by doing the following.
学会以一种主观的方式  将多巴胺与犯错的过程联系起来
Learn to attach dopamine in a subjective way to this process of making errors,
因为这实际上是将两种可塑性模式结合在一起  然后可以加速可塑性
because that's really combining two modes of plasticity in ways that together can accelerate the plasticity.
早些时候
So earlier,
我说过在一轮专注学习的过程中犯错误
I talked about making errors in having a focus bout of learning.
就是说在学习过程中  要犯很多错误
That includes making a lot of errors inside of that learning about that is going to be frustrating,
但沮丧这种情绪本身就是一种刺激  它刺激肾上腺素在这种情况下大量释放
but the frustration itself is the queue and epinephrine will be very high under those conditions.
但如果你能主观地把这种沮丧的体验和好的事情联系起来
But if you can just subjectively associate that experience with something good
并且你想继续学下去 而不是放弃
and that you want to continue down that path as opposed to quitting,
就是在当你遇到挫折的时候  要这么做
when you hit the point of frustration,
恩
well,
然后当你开始在自己主观地认为某件事很好  或告诉自己某件事很好时
then you now start to create a synergy between the dopamine that's released when we
这时  释放的多巴胺和失败的情况之间就会产生协同效应
subjectively think something is good or tell ourselves something as good and that situation of making failures,
换句话说 修复好这些失败
in other words making failures repaired.
如果重复的失败
If failing repetitively,
只要他们有特定的行为
provided were engaged in a very specific set of behaviors,
当我们重复性失败的时候
when we do it,
你要告诉自己  一方面那些失败对学习和我们有好处之外
as well as telling ourselves that those failures are good for learning
另一方面还会对可塑性产生巨大的影响
and good for us creates an outsize effect on the rate of plasticity.
它能加速可塑性 那有些人可能会问
It accelerates plasticity and some of you might be asking,
我被问了很多问题
and I get asked a lot.
好
Well.
我怎样才能释放多巴胺
how do I get dopamine to be released,
我总不能告诉自己 这事挺好  但明明它是件坏事
and can I just tell myself that something is good When it's bad,
其实我们可以
we'll actually.
是的
Yes,
信不信由你
believe it or not you have.
多巴胺是一种非常主观的物质
The thing about dopamine is it's highly subjective.
对一个人来说好笑的事  对另一个人来说就不怎么好笑
What's funny to one person is not a silly funny to the next,
所以你对它肯定有一种主导性
so it has to have some sense of authenticity for you.
但如果你拼了命想学懂那些东西的时候
But if you really want to be learning the thing that you're trying to learn,
这应该是一个充分的理由  告诉自己当我感到沮丧的时候
that should be reason enough to tell yourself while I'm frustrated.
这挫折感正是加速学习的源泉
And but this the frustration is the source of of accelerated learning.
多巴胺就是其中之一
Dopamine is one of these,
不可思议的分子 两者都可以被释放
an incredible molecules that both can be released.
根据我们体内的本能再次释放多巴胺
According to things that are hard wired in us to release dopamine again,
比如食物  性
things like food sacks,
冷的时候得到的温暖
warmth whom were cold,
太热的时候 进入一个凉爽的环境
cool environments when we're too warm.
这是一种快乐分子
It's that kind of pleasure molecule overall.
但是
But.
这也是非常主观的
It's also highly subjective.
在一个人身上释放多巴胺和另一个人身上的不同
releases dopamine in one person versus the next.
所以每个人都会释放多巴胺  来回应这些基本的行为和活动
So everyone releases dopamine in response to those very basic kind of behaviors and activities.
但多巴胺的释放也取决于我们主观认为对我们有益的东西
But dopamine is also released according to what we subjectively believe is good for us,
这就是它的强大之处
and that's what's so powerful about it.
事实上
In fact,
如果你想读更多关于多巴胺的书 我强烈推荐这本书
a book that I highly recommend if you want to read more about dopamine.
坦白说 这本书真的
It's a book that frankly,
我真希望我能写出这么精彩的书
I wish I had written at such a wonderful book.
<The Molecule of More>
It's called the molecule of more.
它就讲的是多巴胺
And it really talks about dopamine,
不仅仅是一种与奖赏相关的分子
not just as a molecule associated with reward,
而且还是一个与动力和追求相关的分子
but a molecule associated with motivation and pursuit.
可以感受到多巴胺受到主观控制的程度
and just how subjectively controlled dopamine can be.
所以  犯很多错误吧
So make lots of errors.
告诉自己这些错误是重要的 对你的整体学习目标有好处
Tell yourself that those errors are important and good for your overall learning goals.
所以要学会在大脑中释放多巴胺
So learn to attach a dopamine meaning release dopamine in your brain.
当你开始犯错时
When you start to make errors,
保持学习周期相对较短
keep the bouts of learning relatively short.
如果你是成年人
If you're an adult,
年轻人可能可以参与更长时间的一轮学习
younger people can can probably engage in more bouts of learning.
这可能就是他们学得更快的原因之一
and it's probably one of the reasons why they learn so much faster.
与成年人相比 他们能在大脑和神经系统中储存更多的信息
They can just pack so much more information into the brains and nervous systems compared to adults.
你知道的
You know,
这有点像一个例子  增强运动表现的药
it's a little bit like I'll use the example of performance.
有些药物可能会增加红细胞的水平  来提高运动表现
enhancing drugs that some of those drugs probably do enhance performance at the level of increasing red blood,
红细胞数量
cell count,
等等
etc.
但是这些药物的作用是  让运动员恢复得更快 这样他们就可以进行更多的训练
But a lot of what those drugs do as they allow athletes to recover faster so they can just train more.
药物允许他们进行更多的训练
They allow them to do more work.
所以一个孩子就有着  一个仿佛性能增强的大脑环境
and so being a child as a little bit like being in a performance enhanced brain milieu,
他们的大脑充满着 天生的
their brains are kind of own natural,
健康的 神经化学物质  能让他们学到更多知识  追求更多
healthy neuro chemicals that that afford them a lot more learning should they pursue it?
这又回到了我之前给年轻人的建议
So this goes back to my advice for young people early on.
如果你还年轻
If you're young,
你应该做什么呢
what should you do?
尽你所能去学习尽可能多的知识
Learn as much as you can about as many things as you possibly can end.
我建议可以专攻某方面
I suggest specializing in something.
虽然我觉得我不能直接给任何人建议
I guess I'm not in a position to give anyone direct advice,
但我想说
but I would say,
我希望
hopefully,
到了30岁左右
by about age thirty,
希望年轻人们
hopefully younger,
你们能知道什么让你们兴奋 然后努力把它做好
you have some sense of what excites you and try and get really good at that thing.
只要这件事能让世界变得更好
Provided it serves the world for better.
但这就是我想说的培养建议
But that's all I'll say in terms of parenting advice,
虽然我不能直接给你们建议
it's not my place,
但我可能之后会有一集  专门讲年轻人和年轻人的学习
but I maybe sometimes you'll have an episode completely devoted to sort of youth and learning in youth.
一旦你把多巴胺与犯错的过程联系起来
Once you're attaching dopamine to this process of making errors.
然后我开始收到很多问题 这些问题都很好
Then I start getting lots of questions that really are that the right questions,
就是
which are you know?
我应该多久做一次
how often should I do this,
我应该什么时候做这件事 具体什么时间？
and when should I be doing this and at what time?
好吧
Well,
我在之前几期中  讲过一点
I've talked a little bit about this in previous episodes,
既然我们现在开始涉及某些工具和应用的本质  那不妨来讲讲
but as long as we're in now kind of into the nitty gritty of tools and application,
我们每个人一天中都有一些很自然的时间
each of us have some natural times throughout the day.
这些时间中当我们能够更好地容忍这些错误
When we are going to be much better at tolerating these errors
并更专注于我们想要做的事情时
and much more focused on what it is that we're trying to do.
上一集是关于注意力的
Last episode was about focus.
但你很可能在下午4点无法像在上午10点那样集中注意力
But chances are that you can't focus as well at four P m as you can at ten a m.
每个人的睡眠时间都不一样 这取决于你的睡眠时间和你的自然化学反应和节奏
it differs for everybody depending on when you're sleeping and your kind of natural chemistry and rhythms.
要找到一天中你自然情况下  精神敏锐度最高的时间点
But find the time or times of day when you naturally have the highest mental acuity,
这就是你真正需要进入学习带的时候
and that's really when you want to engage in these learning belts,
然后就到了你会犯错的时候  然后在7到30分钟内不断犯错
and then get to the point where you're making errors and then keep making errors for seven to thirty minutes.
你只要继续犯这些错误 然后不断钻研它
Just keep making those errors and drill through it,
几乎是要去寻求挫折
And you're almost seeking frustration,
如果你能在挫折中找到乐趣
and if you can find some pleasure in the frustration,
是的
yes,
这种状态是可以存在的
that is a state that exists.
那你创造出了学习的最佳神经化学工厂
You have created the optimal neurochemical mill you for learning that thing,
这就是它的美妙之处
but then here's the beauty of it.
你还为以后学习其他东西创造了最佳价值
You also created the optimal value for learning other things afterward.
如果你离开了那一轮学习
If you leave that bout of I,
举个罚球的例子
give the example of free throws,
或者是打网球
or maybe it's playing tennis,
也可能是其他技能
or maybe it's some other skill.
然后你坐下来看书
And you sit down to read a book.
你的大脑依然是处于一种高度紧张的状态来学习和保留这些信息
Your brain is in a heightened state to learn and retain the information
因为这些化学物质不会被放走  它们还在
because those chemicals don't get released,
它不会关闭
and then it shut down,
你在创造一个完整的环境
you're creating a whole mille Yu,
一个充满这些化学物质的环境
an environment of these chemicals,
至于之后这些化学物质能停留多久
and the tale of how long these chemicals stay.
因为脑子里的化学物质太多了 我没法给所有人一个确切的数字
Sloshing around in your brain has too many factors for me to put a hard number on it.
它还取决于转运体和酶以及各种各样的东西
It's going to depend on transporters and enzymes and all sorts of things.
但至少有一个小时左右
But at least for an hour or so,
可以说你会处于一种高度学习的状态 说的是整个学习的能力  不仅仅是运动模式
I would say you're going to be in a state of heightened learning and the ability to learn not just the motor patterns,
还有认知信息
but cognitive information,
语言信息
language information.
也许你在那之后就去看心理医生
Maybe you go to therapy right after that,
你会以一种深思熟虑的方式来研究你想要研究的东西
and you work on something in a very deliberate way that you're trying to work on.
也许你不去看心理医生
Maybe you don't go to therapy.
也许你又做了对你很重要的事
Maybe you do something else that's important to you again.
这里有很多例子
There's just a variety of examples.
我可以给你们说说
I could give.
有很多东西可以让我们强大地接触到这些犯错的状态
There are a number of things that allow us to powerfully access these states of error that are kind of surprising,
令人惊讶 但也很有趣
but also kind of fun,
不过这些 我再说一遍
and these aren't again.
这些不是噱头
These aren't gimmicks.
这些都是可塑性的基本机制
These tap into these basic mechanisms of plasticity.
接下来我要讲的是平衡
and the three that I'd like to talk about next or balance,
也就是前庭系统
meaning the vestibular system,
以及我称之为边缘摩擦或自主觉醒的两侧
as well as the two sides of what I call limbic friction or autonomic arousal.
如果听不懂这些
And if none of that makes sense,
我会详细说明每一个术语以及它是什么 以及它为什么有助于打开神经可塑性
I'm going to put a fine point on each one of those and what it is and why it works for opening up neural plasticity.
我们来谈谈边缘摩擦
Let's talk about limbic friction.
好
Now,
边缘摩擦不是你们在教科书中会找到的术语
limbic friction is not a term you are going to find in the textbooks.
所以如果我的同事听到了
So if any of my colleagues are listening,
我想重复以下  是叫边缘摩擦
I want to repeat limbic friction.
我知道你在任何教科书上都找不到
I realize it's not something you're going to find in any of the textbooks.
但这是一个很重要的原则 它涵盖了很多课本上的信息
But it is an important principle that captures a lot of information that is in textbooks,
神经生物学和心理学
both neurobiology and psychology.
它有一些非常重要的含义
And it has some really important implications.
边缘摩擦是我试图给一种比压力更微妙  更机制化的东西命名的
Limbic friction is my attempt to give a name to something that is more nuanced and mechanistic than stress,
因为通常情况下
because typically,
当我们听到压力的时候
when we hear about stress,
我们会想到心率  心跳
we think of heart rate heart beat,
跳的很快
going too fast,
呼吸过快
breathing too fast,
出汗 不处于我们想要警惕的状态
sweating and not being in a state that we want where to alert.
我们想要更冷静
and we want to be more calm.
事实上
And indeed,
我们会有边缘摩擦的一种情况
that's one condition in which we have limbic friction,
这意味着我们的大脑边缘系统
meaning our limbic system is taking control of a number of different aspects of
控制着我们自主生物的许多不同方面
our autonomic or autumnal automatic biology.
我们正在努力通过所谓的自上而下的机制来控制它
And we are struggling to control that through what we call top down.
试图冷静下来 以降低这种压力升高水平
mechanisms were trying to calm down in order to reduce that level of arousal.
我们都很熟悉这个
We're all familiar with this.
这叫做压力反应
It's called the stress response over.
压力的另一个方面也同样重要
There is another aspect of stress that's just as important,
当我们疲惫不堪时 如果需要去做什么事情
which is when we're tired and were fatigued and we need to engage,
那我们需要比现在更警惕
we need to be more alert than we are.
所以我所说的边缘摩擦是用来描述一个事情
And so what I call limbic friction is really designed to describe the fact that
当我们的自主神经系统不在我们想要的位置时
when our autonomic nervous system isn't where we want it,
这意味着我们试图变得更警觉或者我们试图变得更不警觉
meaning we're trying to be more alert or we're trying to be less alert.
这两种情况都会让人们感到压力
Both of those feel stressful the people.
所以另一种说法是 压力这个词不是一个很好的词来描述大多数人所经历的压力
so the other way to put it is that the word stress is not a very good word to describe what most people
因为可能你只是太累了 也可能只是太清醒了
experience  a stressful because it can either be being too tired or being too alert.
那么
Now.
为什么我要讨论神经可塑性的时候提起这个呢
Why am I bringing this up into discussion about neuro plasticity?
这又不是关于压力的讨论
That is not a discussion about stress.
不过之后我们会讲到压力和应对压力的方法
At some point we will talk about stress and tools to deal with stress,
但我提出了刚才关于压力的讨论是因为 为了获得神经可塑性
but the reason I'm bringing this up is that in order to access neural plasticity,
你需要这些焦点的组成部分
you need these components of focus.
你需要一种附加的主观奖励
You need a component of sort of attaching subjective reward,
你需要在所有的东西上犯错误
you need to make errors all the stuff
很多人发现很难进入整个状态来学习
and a lot of people find it difficult to just get into the overall state to access those things.
所以现在有一系列的方法  人们很难进入的门
So now there's a series of gates that people are having a hard time accessing,
他们太累了 无法集中注意力
they're too tired and they can't focus.
比如
for instance.
好吧
Well,
这就是它的美妙之处
here's the beauty of it.
如果你要清醒警觉
If you are to alert,
意思就是
meaning you know,
你有点焦虑 你想要平静下来以便更好地学习
anxious and you want to calm down in order to learn better,
有些事情你可以做
there are things that you can do.
这两个  我之前在其他的播客上讲过
The two that I've spoken about previously on various podcasts,
我很快地回顾一下 一个是  两次吸气  一次呼气
I'll just review them really quickly are the double inhale exhale,
用鼻子吸气两次 用嘴呼气一次
so inhaling twice through the nose and exhaling once through the mouth.
这不是什么小把戏
This is not some yogurt trick or some hack.
这就是所谓的生理呼吸 从肺部释放二氧化碳
This is what's called a physiological sigh offloads carbon dioxide from the lungs.
它有很多不同的效果
It has a number of different effects.
课本上有描述 回到
These were described in textbooks and getting back to the.
那些
You know,
权威机构  一些实验室已经探索了这些系统背后的神经回路
the authorities and a number of laboratories have explored the neural circuitry underlying these,
这就是所谓的生理呼吸
so called physiological size.
这比我知道的任何其他方法  都能更快的让你冷静下来
That will calm you down faster than anything else that I'm aware of.
另一件事开始改变你的视觉椎体
The other thing is starting to remove your tunnel vision,
你知道的
you know,
当你用视觉椎体时
when you use tunnel vision,
你会非常专注
you very focused that up.
肾上腺素会释放
epinephrine is released by dilating,
通过扩张你的  所谓的全景视野
your your field of gaze so-called panoramic vision.
很好 那么现在你可以改变这种压力的高和低了
great so now you can start to sort of move up and down this level of autonomic arousal.
关键是 你想要处于一种唤醒的状态
The key is you want to be in a state of arousal
与你想要完成或学习的事物相匹配
that ideally matched to the thing that you're trying to perform or learn.
所以如果我非常焦虑 甚至无法拿起篮球
So if I'm really anxious and I can't even pick up the basket ball,
我在发抖或者肌肉太紧张
where I feel like I'm shaking or my muscles are too tight,
一点都无法放松 不像之前自如地投球那样
I don't have that kind of looseness now than when I move like that almost makes it look like I could throw,
在罚球线
throw free,
投
throw,
虽然我95%的情况下都投不进 除非篮筐非常
but I miss ninety five percent of the time unless the basket is very,
非常低
very low,
我间接地把它放了进去
and I place it indirectly.
不过这应该就不是罚球了哈哈
But I guess it's not a free throw.
无论如何 关键是你
Is that in any case the point being that you,
你要处于一种警觉但又冷静的状态
you want to be in a state of alertness but calm and
所以当你过于兴奋时 你需要用一些方法让自己冷静下来
so you need to have ways to calm yourself down when you're when you're too amped up.
但另一方面
But the other side,
边缘摩擦也很重要
limbic friction is important too.
如果你太累了 不能很好地集中注意力
If you are too tired and you can't focus well,
都没力气走到起跑线上了
then it's going to be impossible to even get to the starting line.
无法开始渐进学习来促进神经可塑性
So to speak for engaging in neural plasticity through incremental learning,
在这种情况下
So in that case,
还有其他方法可以唤醒你自己
there are other methods that you can do to wake yourself up.
你最应该做的事就是睡个好觉
The best thing you should do is get a good night's sleep.
但这并不总是能做到的
But that's not always possible.
或者使用NSDR非睡眠深度休息协议
or use an NSDR non sleep deep rest protocol.
但如果你已经用了这些方法 或者你只是因为其他原因而筋疲力尽
But if you've already done those things or you're simply exhausted for whatever other reason,
那么还有一些我经常被问到的问题
then there are other things that I often get asked about.
比如
like sure,
一杯咖啡或氧气式呼吸
a cup of coffee or super oxygenation breathing,
也就是 在一次呼吸中 平均吸入的气体比呼出的要多
which means inhaling more than exhaling on average in it in a breathing bout these are
那么 我们正接近一种领域  如何让你的神经系统醒来
now we're sort of getting toward the realm of what how you could trick your nervous system into waking up,
如果你吸入了更多的氧气 并且吸气更深更长
and if you bring more oxygen and by making your inhales deeper and longer,
你会变得更加警觉
you will become more alert,
如果你呼吸非常快 你就会开始释放去甲肾上腺素
you'll start to actually deploy norepinephrine if you breathe very fast,
所以你可以用这些方法  来提升或降低这种所谓的自主觉醒
So there are things that you can do to move up or down this socalled autonomic arousal,
在你进行任何学习之前 你要问自己  在我自己感觉中 我的边缘摩擦有多大
and what you want to ask before you undergo any learning about is how much limbic friction in my experiencing
我想要更平静 还是我过于镇静了  还是说我太困了 我想要更警觉
am I to alert and I want to be calmer or my to calm and too sleepy and I want to be more alert.
为了学习 你需要用一些把你带到起跑线上的方法
You're going to need to engage in behaviors that bring you to the starting line in order to learn.
为了学得更好更快 你还可以做其他事情
There are other things that you can do in order to then learn better and faster,
除了渐进式学习 这些都以前庭系统为中心
besides incremental learning and those centre on the vestibular system.
这可能会让一些人感到惊讶
And this may come as a surprise to some people,
不过一些人来说  也不怎么惊讶
but probably not as a surprise to some of you,
本身你们的职业或娱乐活动涉及到很多肌肉活动
whose professions or whose recreation involves a lot of motor activity and sort of
我们称之为高维度技能活动
what we call high dimensional skill activity,
不仅仅是跑步或骑自行车或什么线性的运动
not just running or cycling or very linear activities,
不像举重这种
like weight lifting,
而是涉及到倒立  和大量横向移动的实际运动
but things that involve inversions and a lot of lateral movement,
跳跃
actual sports jumping,
潜水
diving,
翻滚  这些动作
rolling these kinds of things,
体操
gymnastics,
之类的东西
type stuff.
为什么前庭系统能获得神经可塑性呢？
why the vestibular system to access neural plasticity.
我们有固定的平衡系统
we have a hardwired system for balance.
我讲一下它的工作原理  我会用尽可能简单的方法来讲
and here's how it works in as simple terms as I can possibly come up with.
当我们在空间中移动的时候
As we move through space,
或者即使我们是静止的
or even if we're stationary,
实际上我们有三个主要的运动平面
there are really three main planes of movement.
我知道有些人是在听节目
and I realized some people are just listening to this,
所以我会为正在听的人  和正在看视频的人示范
so I'm going to do this for both of the folks that are just listening and for those of you that are watching on video.
有三种主要的运动模式
So there are three main modes of movement,
事实证明 你的大脑并不知道你的身体在哪里
and it turns out that your brain doesn't really know where your body is.
除了本体感觉反馈  它知道四肢在哪里
except went through that proprioception feedback.
它了解你所处的位置的主要方式  是通过三个运动平面  一个是俯仰
The main way it knows is through three planes of movement that we call pitch,
就像点头一样
which is like nodding.
如果我像这样点头
So if I nod like this,
这就是俯仰
that's pitch,
然后是偏转 偏转是关乎左右方向的
then there's yaw which is tied to side,
这就像摇头一样
which is like shaking my head.
最后是滚转
Roll
就是从一边滚到另一边  就像小狗斜着头看你一样
and then there's a roll from side to side like when a puppy looks at you like that kind of thing.
好
Ok,
俯仰  偏转和滚转
so pitch yaw and role,
飞行员肯定知道我在说什么
and the pilots out there will know exactly what I'm talking about.
大脑能够知道你身体相对于重力的方向和位置
The brain knows the orientation and position of your body relative to gravity,
取决于你的大脑是否在参与更多的俯仰
depending on whether or not your brain is in your head actually is engaging more in pitch,
偏转
yaw,
滚转
or roll,
或三者的组合
or some combination.
因为如果我像这样弯腰
Because if I leaned down like so,
我们都会这么做
we're like so.
它就是俯仰  偏转  滚转三者的结合
It's a combination of pitches yaw roll
你可能会想
You might say,
这是在说啥呢
like what is going on here.
好
Well,
我们的内耳中有一些小软管  叫做半规管
we have these little things in art in our inner ear called the Semicircular Canals.
就像我们的眼睛一样有两个主要功能
Just like our eyes have two main functions,
一种是看到空间中的物体
one is to see objects in space,
另一个是通过潜意识的机制调整我们的生物钟
and the other is to set our circadian clocks through.
而耳朵也有两个主要的作用  一是听  对吧
Subconscious mechanisms are ears have two main roles one is to hear right to perceive.
感知声波
Sound waves were taken sound waves for perception,
所谓的听力
so called hearing,
另一个是平衡前庭功能
and the other is balance of vestibular function.
所以在我们耳朵里的半规管
So sitting in our ears are the semicircular canals,
这是些小管子
and they're these little tubes,
里面有点小石头  有点是钙质小球
or these little little stones are actually little bits of Kelsey.
像小弹珠一样来回滚动
Roll back and forth like little marbles.
当我们往这边滚转的时候
When we roll this way,
当我们从一边滚到另一边时 它们是这样滚动的
they roll this way when a pitch we go from side to side there,
有些像这样平躺着
some that sit flat like this,
像呼啦圈里的小弹珠
and they go like marbles inside of a hula hoop
然后我们开始滚转
and then we have role.
有的时候 45度的
There are some that are kind of at forty five degrees to those,
这是一个很好的俯仰  偏转  滚转 它向我们的大脑和身体的其他部分发送信号
And it's kind of pitch yeon role OK great that send signals to the rest of our brain and body
告诉我们如何补偿相对于重力的变化
that tell us how to compensate for shifts relative to gravity.
对
And I say,
好
OK,
我们不是讨论的是可塑性吗
I thought we were talking about plasticity,
但就是这部分内容
but this is where it gets really,
非常酷
really cool.
刺激器的错误  也就是运动感觉体验的错误
Errors in the stimulator motor sensory experience,
也就是说 当我们失去平衡时 我们必须通过以不同的方式看待世界
meaning when we are off balance and we have to compensate by looking at thinking about
或对世界作出反应来进行补偿
or responding to the world differently,
会导致我们大脑中一个叫做小脑的区域
cause an area of our brain called the Cerebellum.
它意思是迷你版大脑
It actually means mini brain.
它看起来像一个小的大脑
it looks like a little mini brain stuff like today,
但我们后部下方的皮层  会导致小脑去向更深的大脑中心发出信号
but lower our cortex in the back caused the cerebellum to signal some of these deeper brain centers that
让它释放多巴胺
release dopamine,
去甲肾上腺素  还有乙酰胆碱
norepinephrine and acetylcholine.
这就是因为内耳中的这些回路
And that's because these circuits in the inner ear,
等等
etc.
在小脑中
In the cerebellum,
当我们与重力的关系改变了生存的基本要素时
they were designed to recalibrate our motor movements
它们被这么设计  用来重新校准我们的运动
when our relationship to gravity changes something fundamental to survive.
我们不能总是摔倒  或者总是抓不到我们想要的东西
But we can't afford to be falling down all the time or missing things that we grabbed four or you know,
当有东西在追我们时 我们却朝着错误的方向跑
running in the wrong direction when something is pursuing us.
这些都是固定的回路
These are hard,
直接进入这些化学回路
wired circuits that tap right into these chemical pathways,
这些化学回路是通向可塑性的大门
and those chemical pathways are the gates to plasticity.
我想把这些理一下   因为我今天讲了很多
So I really want to spell this out clearly because I've given a lot of information today.
第一件事是  你该如何进入一轮学习周期呢？
The first thing is how are you arriving to the learning bout?
你首先需要确定你的自主唤醒水平是正确的
you need to make sure your level of autonomic arousal is correct.
理想状态是 非常清晰
The ideal state is going to be clear,
冷静和专注
calm and focused,
也许在唤起水平上再多一点
maybe a little bit more on that on the arousal level,
有点像高度兴奋
like heightened arousal,
所以要理解
so understand,
边缘摩擦
limbic friction,
要明白 你可能会太累
understand that you can be too tired.
在这种情况下 你需要让自己更加警觉
In which case you're going to need to get yourself a more alert
或者你可能太警觉了 让自己冷静下来
or you can be to alert and you're going to need to get yourself calmer.
这能让你站在起跑线上
That gets you to the starting line.
当你站在起跑线上
When you're at the starting line,
然后你就会进入一轮学习周期
then you're going to go into a learning about,
这时你就会开始犯一些错误
and that's when you want to start making these errors.
好吧
Okay.
但我想说的是 在这两者之间有一个层次 如果你对使用运动模式感兴趣
But what I'm saying is there's a layer in between where if you are interested in using motor patterns
它可以作为一种打开各种学习可塑性的方式
as a way to open up plasticity for all kinds of learning,
不仅仅是运动学习
not just motor learning.
会打乱你的
Disrupting your vis,
运动刺激器关系
the stimulator motor.
其中的含义等下我会告诉你们怎么做
Relationship meaning and I'll tell you how to do that
打乱这个关系之后的一瞬间  大脑中会部署或释放神经化学物质  使你进入一种状态
in a moment can deploy or release neuro chemicals in the brain that place you into a state that makes you
使你更善于学习  也使犯错误更愉快
much better at learning and makes making errors much more pleasurable.
然后你们就更愿意去犯错了  你们中的一些人可能会说  啊 这不就是心流状态嘛
You're much more willing to do that now some of you are probably sank flow state flow state.
好
OK,
我有一些从事 心流状态研究的朋友 他们也运用着心流状态 并试图找出其中的原因和机制
I have friends at work on flow states and who are involved in flow states and trying to figure out what they are
我对这些人非常尊重
a great respect for those people.
向他们脱帽致意
So when I tip my hat to them,
非常重要的研究
they're very important work.
但是我再说一遍
But again,
心流  是你对已经知道如何去做的事物的表达
flow is an expression of what you already know how to do it.
但这不是你学习的方式
but it's not how you learn.
这是你如何表达你已经学过的东西
It's how you express what you've already learned.
所以我要明确这一点
So I want to be really clear about that.
它被描述成一种超级状态  或者说是非常理想的状态
It's been kind of presented as the super state or highly desirable state,
但这是你已知的 都能达到的目标
but it's that you know we can all reach for.
这是错误进入学习的方法 除非你已经知道如何做我所描述的事情
That's the wrong rung to reach for it until you already know how to do the things that I'm describing.
当然这是我的观点
in my opinion,
所以前庭系统
so the vestibular system,
如果你能激活前庭神经系统
If you can engage the vestibular system
在你进行的前庭神经运动操作中产生一些错误
and create some errors within the vestibular motor operations that you're carrying out,
你会产生一种神经化学状态 让你变得非常
you create a neurochemical state that then makes you very,
非常擅长快速学习
very good at learning very quickly,
无论年龄是多少岁
regardless of age.
这是什么样子的呢
So what would this look like?
这是否意味着只能倒立呢
Does this mean just doing inversions wool?
这意思是要练瑜伽吗？  可能是的
Does this mean doing yoga?  Maybe
难道要骑着自行车在路口更快地转弯？
does this mean I'm taking a corners faster on your road bike?
还是说 假设你总是游自由泳和蛙泳
Does this mean let's say you always swim freestyle and breast stroke.
然后突然变为
Does this mean swimming?
仰泳或者是蝶泳
backstroke or butterfly?
看情况
It depends.
这得看情况
It depends,
不过
however,
有一个
on a very,
很容易理解的参数
very easy to understand parameter,
也就是你特定的运动行为有多规律
which is how regularly you perform a particular motor behavior.
以及它对你来说有多新颖
How novel behavior is
如果一种行为在你与引力的关系中越新颖
so the more novel that a behavior is in terms of your relationship to gravity,
它就越能开启可塑性的机会
the more it will open up the opportunity for plasticity.
你见过第一次从飞机上跳下来的人吗
Have you ever seen somebody who has just jumped out of a plane for the first time?
当然了带着降落伞
With a parachute,
我甚至不敢想去想...额  要是真没降落伞
and I don't even want to think about what if you've just seen somebody who jumped out of a plane
第一次从飞机上跳下来
for the first time without a parachute.
我只求那个飞机是停在地上的
I just hope the plane was on the ground.
但如果你在他们降落之后去看他们这个人
But if you seen somebody after that,
你会发现  他们处于一种不可思议的状态 因为他们的身体和大脑充满了这些神经化学物质
they are in this incredible state because their body and brain are flooded with all these neural chemicals
因为这对他们来说是非常新奇的体验
because it's very novel to them.
然而
However,
在我的圈子里有很多朋友
I've got friends from communities that do you know have done
他们已经跳过成千上万次
thousands upon thousands or tens of thousands of jumps.
虽然每次都会有警觉和清醒感
and there are always alert and aware,
但对他们来说 这变得很正常
but it becomes pretty regular for them.
这就是重点
That's the point,
之后他们就不再处于这种兴奋的状态了  因为这对他们来说是家常便饭
and they're not in this kind of buzzed out excited state afterwards because it's routine for them,
所以关键是给前庭运动带来新颖的感觉
so the key is to bring novelty to the vestibular motor,
让前庭运动感受到你正在做的运动
experienced the vestibular motor commands that you are performing.
那你该怎么感觉呢
and how do you do that?
看你相对于重力的方向
it's all about your orientation relative to gravity.
当然  我不想让任何人把自己置于危险之中
Now I wouldn't want anyone to place themselves at risk.
所以如果你不能做倒立
So if you cant do handstands,
不要尝试
don't try,
如果你擅长倒立
and do them freestanding and at whatever if you're good at handstands,
猜猜看做半小时的倒立能给你带来多少可塑性
Guess how much plasticity doing handstands for half an hour is going to create for you
零
zero zero,
即便你的身体可以非常自如地用手走路
your body is fully comfortable walking on your hands.
我看到有些人用手倒立  还能用手走路
I see these people walking on your hands being upside down being inverted.
比如太阳马戏团的演员  很自在地用手走路
you know your Cirque du Soleil performers there very comfortable there,
那么学习能力为零  可塑性为零  因为失败和错误  以及与重力的关系
and there's zero learning zero plasticity because the failures and errors and the relationship to gravity
对那个人来说已经非常熟悉
are very typical for that individual.
那么
Now.
这意味着 如果我们要通过运动练习来开启学习的可塑性
What this means is that if we're going to use motor practices to open up plasticity for learning,
不仅仅是那些运动
not just those practices,
但在接下来的一段时间里 可能会要学一些认知技能或其他技能
but some may be some cognitive skills or other things in the period that follows,
那我们需要创造一种相对于重力的新奇感
we need to create a sense of novelty relative to gravity,
这意味着要么处于一个新的位置 要么有点不稳定
and that means being either in a new position or slightly unstable.
不过
Believe it or not,
这一点
this,
我不想让任何人受伤
and I don't want anyone,
但体验到自己在坠落的时候
injuring themselves with a sensation of falling or close to falling signals,
小脑向大脑深处中心发出信号  释放这些神经化学物质
the cerebellum to signal the deep brain centers that release these neural chemicals,
异常的事情发生了
that something is very different,
我们需要纠正这个错误
and we need to correct this error very,
快纠正
very fast.
之前我讲过学习的高偶然性
Now earlier I was talking about high contingencies for learning.
不过
And you know,
绝对不要给它弄得像
you definitely don't want to make it a kind of like either.
涉及到生死的那种经历
survive this ore or die kind of experience.
我承认 我偶尔会在Youtube上看跑酷的视频 但是其中些人因此丧生
I confess I occasionally look at these Parker videos on Youtube and believe in all of those people have died.
那些做天马行空的事情  比如说挂在建筑物上
the ones that do these ridiculous things of hanging off of buildings,
我不建议你这么做这种事  请别这么做
things I am not suggesting you do that please don't do that.
我想说的是找到一种安全的方法来探索感受运动前庭空间
What I'm talking about is finding safe ways to explore the sensory motor vestibular space as we call it
这些东西之间的关系  这可以通过瑜伽来实现
the relationship between those things so that could be through yoga.
如果你不擅长瑜伽
If you're terrible at yoga,
那么比起擅长瑜伽的人 你有更多的机会去学习
there's more opportunity for you to learn than somebody who is very skilled at yoga,
是的
for instance,
或者体操或者倒立
or gymnastics or handstands,
或者在你的公路自行车上
or on your road bike.
不过 这边我不想说具体的品牌
This is unfortunately what I don't want name brands,
但是那种固定自行车
but stationary bikes,
然后给你VR  在空间中移动的视觉体验
where they give you the visual experience of moving through space,
但实际上你并没有在物理空间中移动
but you're not actually moving through physical space.
并没有前庭反馈
There's no vestibular feedback.
全都是视觉参与
It's all visual,
你这个人在自行车上是静止的
bright your stationary on the bike right,
所以  除非你把自行车挂在客厅里
so unless you're hanging off the bike in your living room,
就像你几乎要把自行车翻倒一样
like almost to the point you're tipping the bike,
你并没有得到真正的前庭运动不匹配
You're not getting the actual vestibule motor sensory mismatch.
这种不匹配才是释放多巴胺的信号 让多巴胺在其他事情上发挥作用
That mismatch is the signal that deploys dopamine up an effort in these other things.
我不管你在VR中有多兴奋 多有趣
I don't care how excited or how much fun the ride was.
或者放了多少你喜欢的音乐
or how much music you're playing that you love.
这和脱离正常的引力关系是不一样的
It's not the same situation as being out of out of your normal relationship to the gravitational pull.
所以第一种方法  是在适当的自主唤醒水平上达到学习
so the first gate is to arrive at learning at the appropriate level of autonomic arousal.
最好是清晰和专注
Clear and focused is best,
但不要纠结于这两者
but don't obsess over being right there.
感到焦虑或疲劳是正常的
It's okay to feel a little anxious or a little bit tired,
然后你就会犯错误
then you want to make errors.
我们讨论过了
We talked about that,
如果你想增强或加速你的可塑性
and this vestibular motor sensory relationship is absolutely key.
这种前庭运动感觉的关系是非常关键的
If you want to get heightened or accelerated plasticity.
我们谈到了另一个特点
And we talked about another feature,
也就是设置一个偶然性
which is setting an a contingency,
如果有理由
if there's a reason,
你真正想学习的一个重要原因
an important reason for you to actually learn,
即使你失败了
even if you're making failures,
学习将会加快
the learning will be accelerated.
所以你真的需要为可塑性做一些事情
so there's really for things that you really need to do for plasticity.
作为一个成年人 我想说  这些也适用于年轻人
As an adult and I would say that these also apply to young people,
然后  有一个有趣的想法实验
and there's an interesting kind of a thought experiment there as well,
就是如果你去观察小孩子
which is if you look at children,
他们会在不同的维度上移动
they are moving a lot in different dimensions.
他们有时会爬到树上
They are hang it sometimes hanging from trees.
或者
or you know,
比如 我自己的运动经历  我小时候很喜欢玩滑板
I was a kind of my sports were always things where I had tended to
然后我经常摔倒  受伤
get hurt a lot fall a lot so it's this skateboarding for me when I was younger.
经常在那滚来滚去
So a lot of falling and rolling in.
诸如此类的事情
Various things of that sort,
但不管孩子们在玩什么运动
but whatever sport the kids are playing,
即使他们不参加体育运动
or even if they don't play a sport,
他们也会动来动去  在各种不同的引力关系下
they tend to move in a lot of different relationships to gravity,
他们的运动更有维度
more dimensionality to their movements,
我应该说比成年人更有维度
I should say than adults,
有一个问题一直萦绕在我的脑海中  就是随着年龄的增长
and one of the questions is always kind of been in the back of my mind is as we age,
我们会越来越缺乏神经可塑性
we get less good at engaging in neural plasticity.
部分原因是随着大脑年龄的增长
Part of that is because as the brain ages,
神经元的结构发生了某些变化
there are certain changes to the way that neurons are structure,
其分子组件发生了变化
their molecular components,
但这是一种自我放大
But it's kind of a of a self amplifying,
或者应该说一个自我
or I should say a self of self,
自我退化的循环 随着我们变老
a degenerating self degenerating cycle where as we get older,
对于特定的运动  我们倾向于让它变得更线性和更有规律
we tend to get more linear and more regular about the specific kinds of movement,
所以我们要么在跑步机上跑步 要么去散步
so we get on the treadmill or we take the walk,
或者我们总是爬同一个楼梯
or we just always go up the same stairs,
一般来说 通过前庭运动与引力联系的机会
And there's less opportunity typically for engaging these relationships to the to the gravitational
会变得更少
pull through the vestibule motor,
我们刚才谈到的感觉趋同
sensory convergence that we talked about a moment ago.
所以你不得不怀疑老年人是否缺失了可塑性
And so you sort of have to wonder whether or not the lack of plasticity
或者可塑性减弱
or the reduced plasticity in older individuals,
当然老年人也包括我
which includes me.
但这反映出的是  这些化学物质没有被使用
would reflect the fact that those chemicals aren't being deployed because.
因为我们没有从事某些行为
Were not engaging in certain behaviors,
而不是说因为化学物质被使用了之后  我们才能够从事某些行为
as opposed to we can engage in the behavior is because the chemicals are being deployed.
现在我有一种感觉 这两者之间有一种相互关系
Now I have a feeling it to both these have a reciprocal relationship.
当然
and I certainly again,
我依然觉得  没有肌肉稳定技能  或者缺失骨密度的人不要去做这些事情
I don't think it would be wise for anyone who doesn't have the muscle stabilising skills
很不明智很危险
or the or the bone density,
首先
to start,
就像倒立之类的  在这里我不是说这个
like doing inversions and things that's where that's not what I'm talking about here,
但你想想我们参与的各种锻炼
but it's interesting to think about the sorts of exercise that we engage,
我们都知道每周三到五次的心率提高 对我们有好处
and we all know that getting the heart rate elevated three to five times a week is really good for us.
对心血管健康有好处
for cardiovascular health,
也有大量的数据支持这个理论  一些负重运动也很重要
I think there's a ton of data support that now some load bearing exercise
可以增加骨密度和保持肌肉力量
is important for increasing bone density and maintaining muscular strength and proper,
和正常接受反馈
receptive feedback.
我相信你们很多人都知道这个
Because I'm sure many of you know this.
但是阻力训练实际上在训练肌肉的同时
But resistance exercise actually trains the nerve to muscle connections
也在训练神经和肌肉的连接
as much as it does the muscles themselves,
这是我在这一集的开头说过的
something I talked about at the beginning of the episode.
但我认为 我们大多数人都可以加大
But I think most of us could stand to increase the degree to which we engage.
前庭系统体验新鲜感的程度
This vestibular system in novel ways,
这可以通过很多不同的机制来实现
and that can be done quite safely through a number of different mechanisms.
我不是冲浪者
I'm not a surfer,
但冲浪的人  他们已经非常熟悉自己身体处在不同的引力位置
but people who do that sort of thing are very familiar with Orient in their body differently,
通过引力位置  来决定自己是要爬下来  还是站起来
according to the gravitational pull of their lying down than their standing up,
然后他们又能够转头 斜着头
then they're turning their leaning their heads again.
就是俯仰偏转滚转
It's this pitch yaw roll thing,
再说一遍
and again,
如果你很擅长冲浪
if you're very skilled at surfing,
你不可能仅仅通过冲浪就能打开可塑性
you're actually not going to open up plasticity just by surfing.
而是要与重力的新关系的学习中 可塑性的窗口才会被打开
It's in the learning of these new relationships to gravity that the windows for plasticity are enhanced.
我想强调的是 我刚才描述的前庭神经相关的办法
So I want to make sure that I underscore the fact that this vestibular thing
是一种增强可塑性的方法
that I've been describing is a way to really accentuate plasticity.
它利用了一种天生的生物机制
It's tapping into an inborn biological mechanism
即小脑向大脑深层核输出  与多巴胺
where the cerebellum has outputs to these deep brain nuclei associated with dopamine,
乙酰胆碱  去甲肾上腺素相关的深层大脑
acetylcholine the norepinephrine.
但你不要冒着健康危险去从事这些活动
You don't want to endanger yourself in the course of pursuing these activities,
但这确实是一种强大的机制
but it is a powerful mechanism.
这是对可塑性的一种放大 因为它们具有很高的偶然性
That's an a kind of an amplifier on plasticity as his high contingency.
如果你需要学习会话法语  才能挽救你的恋爱
If you really need to learn conversational French to save your relationship,
那么你很有可能可以学会
the chances are you're going to learn it.
但这有限制
There are limits,
这是当然的
of course,
在某种程度上  你可以强调或加速可塑性
to the extent to which one can accentuate or accelerate plasticity.
但它不是无限的
The ceiling on this is not infinite,
虽然我们不知道天花板在哪里
although we don't know how high it goes.
如果有人拿枪指着我的头说
I think it's reasonable to say that if someone put a gun to my head and said,
在接下来的一百二十秒里  学会法语会话
learn conversational French in the next hundred and twenty seconds,
那最后学到的法语会话
that conversational French will be limited,
可能只有一个词
probably to just one word,
可能是什么  “oui(对)” 之类的词
probably the word 'oui' or something like that,
因为我不能一下子把所有的知识都塞进去
because I can't stuff in all the knowledge all at once.
我的意思是
I mean,
我认为这就是理想状态的脑机接口
I think that's the dream of brain machine interface that
人们可以下载到一个在海马体或皮层的芯片里
one will be able to download a chip into their hippocampus or cortex,
或者其他大脑结构 让他们能够下载法语会话
or some other brain structure that would allow them to download conversational French.
也许有一天我们能做到
And someday we may get to that.
如你所知
As you know,
以现在的技术 它还不能实现
that capability may come about right now it does not exist,
也没有一种特定的化学支持可以让你更快地下载更多的信息
nor is there a specific pillar chemical that will allow you to download more information more quickly.
这是我之前讲过的智力药的问题
This is the the issue around nootropics I've talked about before.
有些东西可以增加注意力
There are things that can increase focus,
主要是增加乙酰胆碱和通过尼古丁系统的传输
mainly things that increase acetylcholine and a transmission through the nicotine system,
有增加多巴胺的东西比如L-酪氨酸
things that can increase dopamine things like l-tyrosine again.
我不推荐这些
I'm not recommending these.
你得注意瓶子上的警告提醒
You need to heed the warnings on those bottles,
但它们会增加这些神经化学物质
but they will increase these neural chemicals.
还有
And there are,
当然
of course,
会增加肾上腺素的东西   比如咖啡因
things that will increase up an efferent things like caffeine or some people,
或有些人因为处方要服用阿得拉
because a prescription take Adderall.
我再次强调 我并不是建议人们去吃这些东西
I'm again not suggesting people take any of these things.
事实上
In fact,
今天的这期中  我几乎只关注行为工具和结构学习的方法
today I focused almost exclusively on behavioral tools and ways of structuring learning bouts
这将使你获得更大的可塑性 无论你现在是几岁
that will allow you to access more plasticity regardless of age,
我敢肯定 如果你回顾一下
and they center around things that I'm sure if you look around you,
你会看到很多
you'll see evidence for,
哦
Oh,
渐进式学习很强大 哦
incremental learning is powerful or oh,
前庭或系统可以开启可塑性的机会
the vestibule or system can open up opportunities for plasticity.
我觉得肯定有瑜伽练习者也在听
I'm sure that the yogi is out there.
都在说
all saying,
等等
Wait,
这听起来就像瑜伽
this sounds exactly like yoga.
我们应该把自己推到一个极限 做这些倒立  做所有这些事情
We're supposed to push to an edge and do these inversions and do all those sorts of things.
好
Well.
我想说清楚
I want to be clear.
我从没说过所有人都应该练习倒立
I never said to anyone should do inversions.
我只说过 前庭系统是进入某些有利于可塑性的神经化学状态的
I said that the vestibular system is a valuable portal into some of these neurochemical states that
重要渠道
favour plasticity.
我经常听到瑜伽界的人这样说   你说的这些大脑是如何工作的
Not so seldom I hear from the yoga community and they will say things like much of what you're saying about
或者神经可塑性在瑜伽练习中已经被描述过了
how the brain works or neuroplasticity has already been described as embedded in yoga practices.
我只是想说清楚
And I just want to be very clear.
我非常尊重瑜伽社区 以及经常性地练习瑜伽
I have tremendous respect for the yoga community and the practices of done Yoga from time to time,
我觉得瑜伽有挑战性  也很有价值
I find it challenging and valuable.
虽然不是一个固定的练习者
I'm not a regular practitioner.
但瑜伽的问题和科学的问题是一样的
The problem with yoga is exactly the same problem with science,
那就是
which is that.
瑜伽的很多练习都有非常具体的名称
Yoga has a lot of practices for which there are very specific names,
但没有描述
but no description.
也没有道出其中对于机制的理解
We're lending of understanding about mechanism
科学也有很多机制 很多出版物和论文
and science has a lot of mechanisms and a lot of publications and papers for which there's very little,
但是 很少有对于方法工具和实践的描述
if not no description of tools and practices.
所以
So.
我的目标是不仅仅是今天
My goal not just today,
而是在这个播客的很多方面
but in many ways throughout the course of the podcast,
就是以神经科学和一些相关领域为基础
is to bridge the gaps between these various disciplines in ways that are grounded
在这些不同学科之间搭建桥梁
mainly to the fields of neuroscience and some related fields.
所以
So,
是的
yes,
没错 我主要是用科学的眼光来看待事物
it's true that I look at things mainly through the lens of science,
但这并不是说它可以详尽地解释一切
but that's not to say that it exhaustively explains everything about anything,
这也不是说 这是我们研究神经可塑性的唯一途径
nor is it to say that it's the only lens through which one could look at something like neural plasticity.
所以我想承认 我非常尊重所有这些不同的实践和社区
So I just want to acknowledge that I have great respect for all these different practices and communities,
我认为
and I think that indeed,
在许多情况下 不同的社区和练习
there are many cases in which different communities and practices
都针对的是相同的目标或结果
have been aimed at targeting the same goals or outcomes.
科学和神经科学  通过对机制的理解可以让我们所有人
Science and neuroscience through an understanding of mechanism can allow all of us to gain out of
从对这些实践的共同理解中获得一些东西 比如神经可塑性
common understanding about what those practices are and how to access things like neural plasticity,
睡眠
sleep,
等等
etc.
我相信
And I do believe,
正如我在之前的播客中所说的
as I've said previously on this podcast.
理解机制为我们提供了一定的灵活性
that understanding mechanism affords us a certain flexibility,
我指的不是身体灵活性
and I don't mean physical flexibility.
我的意思是  我们不需要拘泥于某种特定的行为的灵活性
I mean a flexibility when we can't engage in a particular behavior.
因为那样我们可能会受伤
Maybe we were injured.
或者也许我们没能够在正确的情况下进行特定的练习
or maybe we're not in the right situation to do a particular practice,
但是通过思考机制  我们可以适应环境
but by thinking about mechanism we can adapt our circumstances.
我在谈到睡眠时谈到了这个问题
I talked about this with sleep,
你知道的
you know,
如果你坚持在早上和晚上的某个特定时间
if you rigidly attached to one protocol of always looking at sunlight at one particular time
去看阳光
in the morning and in the evening.
这并没有理解其中的机制那么有价值
That is not as valuable as understanding
你还是不知道为什么要早晚看阳光
the mechanisms of why you might look at sunlight at one particular time versus another,
因为这给了你灵活性  让你能够适应
because that affords you a flexibility allows you to adapt
生活是动态的  我们不能一直控制所有的外部条件
and life is very dynamic and we don't have control over all the external conditions all the time,
所以通过神经科学的视角来理解机制
and so understanding mechanism through the lens of neuroscience,
我相信通过这个
I do believe,
你们可以变得非常强大 因为
can be very powerful because,
当然了 获取多巴胺有多种方式
of course there are multiple ways to access dopamine.
有多种方法来调整边缘摩擦
There are multiple ways to adjust limbic friction.
不仅仅是通过呼吸
It's not just through respiration.
有很多方法可以做到这一点
there are many ways to do that.
所以我这一集的总体目标是
and so my overall goal here in this episode and with this podcast,
是为了让你们对这些机制有一些了解  以及对潜在生物学有一些见解
is to give you some understanding of the mechanisms and the insights into the underlying biology
使你们能够调整这些基本机制  来适应你们特定的学习需求
that allow you to tailor what these kind of foundational mechanisms or to suit your particular learning needs.
非常感谢你的时间和关注
So I really thank you for your time.
今天涵盖了很多知识点
and attention to day covered a lot of material.
我鼓励大家在评论区提问
I very much encourage questions in the comments section.
如果你在Youtube上看这个视频
If you're looking at this on Youtube,
如果你在苹果或Spotify上听
and if you're nodding or listening to it on an Apple or Spotify,
请随时访问我们的Youtube频道 并在评论区提出你的问题
please feel free to visit us over on the Youtube channel and put your questions in the comments section
我都有看评论 这一整个月都是关于神经可塑性的
I do read them this entire month is all about neural plasticity.
有很多东西要讲
There's a lot to cover,
我很高兴它正好与你特定的兴趣有关  能让你更深入地研究这个话题
but I'm very excited to delve deeper into this topic as it relates to your particular interests.
你们中的许多人非常友好地询问如何支持播客
Many of you have graciously asked how you can help support the podcast.
最好的办法就是订阅Youtube频道 如果你还没订阅的话
The best way you can do that is to subscribe to the Youtube channel if you haven't done that already,
也可以在下面的评论部分提出问题
as well as to place questions in the comments section below or comments,
如果你愿意  可以给我们反馈
if you'd like to give us feedback.
同时
Also,
订阅苹果或Spotify
to subscribe on Apple and or Spotify,
如果你认为我们应该得到五星评价 Apple上你可以留下五星评价
Defy an Apple allows you to leave a five Star review if you believe we deserve a five Star review,
并对播客留下评论
as well as leave comments about the podcast.
此外
In addition,
如果你能把播客推荐给你的朋友
if you can suggest the podcast to your friends,
给你的家人  或任何你认为可能使用这些  或者觉得这些信息对他们有用的人
to your family members or anyone that you think might be able to use and appreciate the information,
这是支持我们的极好方式 当然
that's a terrific way to support us and of course,
也可以看一看我们在一开始提到的赞助商
check out our sponsors that we mentioned at the beginning.
这也是很好的支持我们的方式
That's a terrific way to support us as well.
在今天的节目中有好几次
Several times throughout today's episode,
以及之前的播客节目
as well as on previous episodes of the podcast.
我已经谈到了各种有助于增强睡眠的补剂
I've talked about various supplements that can be useful for enhancing sleep,
增强神经可塑性
enhancing neural plasticity,
再一次
And again,
我想强调的是 我一直认为行为实践是起点
I want to emphasize that I always think that behavioral practices are the place to start.
我不认为是补剂
I don't think.
对于那些希望在生活中增强神经系统的人来说
supplement should ever be the first line of entry for people looking to enhance
补剂不应该是入门方法
these aspects of their nervous system in life.
但对于那些对补剂感兴趣的人
But for those of you that are interested in supplements and supplements
我很高兴地宣布我们与Thorne合作
that I take and pleased to announce that we partnered with Thorn T H O R N E
Thorne是生产补剂的公司
and thorn makes supplements that are,
在我看来
in my opinion,
他们在瓶子上列出的剂量非常严格准确  和你瓶里实际的剂量是一致的
Of the very highest stringency in terms of what's listed on the bottle is actually what you'll find in the bottle.
而补品行业中  这是个严重的问题
This is a serious issue for the supplement industry,
以及他们添加到补剂中的原材料的整体质量都很高
as well as just the overall quality of the materials they put into their supplements.
如果你想看我服用的补剂  或者自己探索它们
If you'd like to take a look at the supplements that I take as well as explore any of them for yourself,
你可以去thorne.com/u/huberman
you can go to thorne.com/huberman
如果你去看了
and if you look there,
你们会看到我服用了很多不同的补品
you'll see a number of different supplements that I take,
如果你决定购买其中任何一件
and if you decide to purchase any of them,
你的订单都可以打八折
you'll get twenty percent off your order,
thorne.com/u/huberman
可以看看我吃的补品   看看有没有适合你的
to see the supplements that I take and to explore if any of them are right for you.
在本期播客的下一期中
In the next episode of this podcast,
我们将继续探索神经可塑性
we're going to continue to explore neural plasticity.
这一点
This,
你们可能还记得
as you may recall,
这就是我们HubermanLab播客的做法
is the way that we go about things here at the HubermanLab podcast,
也就是用三 四甚至五集的时间来深入研究一个话题
which is to really drilled deeply into a topic for three or four or even five episode,
所以在这些节目的结尾
so that by the end of those episodes,
你们所有人都能够  将神经生物学的原理进行应用  有一个非常稳固的理解
All of you have a very firm understanding of how to apply the principles of neurobiology
可以应用于对你们来说最重要的具体实践和努力方向
to the specific practices and endeavors that are most important to you.
所以非常感谢
so very much.
感谢您的时间和关注
Thank you for your time and attention.
我知道这期有很多信息 需要一点专注和注意力
I know it's a lot of information and it takes a bit of focus and attention,
而这就会激发学习所有这些信息的可塑性
and certainly will trigger plasticity to learn.
鼓励你 提醒你 你不需要一下子全部掌握
All this information would encourage you and just remind you that you don't have to grasp it all at once,
它就存档在这里 如果你想回过去复习一下这些信息
that it is here archived and that if you want to return to the information,
它仍然会在这里
it will still be here
最后依然  非常感谢你们对科学的兴趣
and that I most of all really appreciate your interest in science.
如果喜欢 也别忘了一键三连up主哦:)